2 0 2 1
ANNUAL
年
REPORT
報
創 新 點 亮 生活
Embracing innovations
that enhance the quality of lifeContents
目錄
Corporate Information Independent Auditor’s Report
2 93
公司資料 獨立核數師報告
Chairman’s Statement Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and
6
主席報告書 96 Other Comprehensive Income
綜合損益及其他全面收益表
Directors and Senior Management of the Group
10
本集團董事及高級管理層 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
97
綜合財務狀況表
Management Discussion and Analysis
16
管理層討論及分析 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
99
綜合權益變動表
Corporate Governance Report
25
企業管治報告書 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
100
綜合現金流量表
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
52
環境、社會及管治報告 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
102
綜合財務報表附註
Directors’ Report
77
董事會報告書 Group Financial Summary
204
集團財務概要IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Information
公司資料
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 董事會
Executive Director: 執行董事：
Zhu Yongning (Chief Executive Officer) 朱永寧（行政總裁）
Non-Executive Director: 非執行董事：
Cui Xiao 崔嘯
Independent Non-Executive Directors: 獨立非執行董事：
Zhou Meilin 周美林
Zhou Rui 周銳
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 執行委員會
Zhu Yongning 朱永寧
AUDIT COMMITTEE 審核委員會
Zhou Meilin (Chairman) 周美林（主席）
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文
Zhou Rui 周銳
NOMINATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 提名及企業管治委員會
Zhou Rui (Chairman) 周銳（主席）
Zhou Meilin 周美林
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 薪酬委員會
Xu Jinwen (Chairman) 徐錦文（主席）
Zhou Meilin 周美林
Zhou Rui 周銳
COMPANY SECRETARY 公司秘書
Chen Kun (Appointed on 1 April 2021) 陳坤（於二零二一年四月一日獲委任）
AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVES 授權代表
Shum Shing Kei (Resigned on 31 March 2021) 沈成基（於二零二一年三月三十一日辭任）
Zhu Yongning 朱永寧
Chen Kun (Appointed on 1 April 2021) 陳坤（於二零二一年四月一日獲委任）
PRINCIPAL BANKERS 主要往來銀行
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 香港上海滙豐銀行有限公司
Hang Seng Bank Limited 恒生銀行有限公司
2 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Information公司資料
AUDITOR 核數師
Mazars CPA Limited 中審眾環（香港）會計師事務所有限公司
LEGAL ADVISORS 法律顧問
Bermuda: 百慕達：
Conyers Dill & Pearman Conyers Dill & Pearman
Hong Kong: 香港：
Peter Chen Law Office 陳坤律師行
SHARE REGISTRARS 股份過戶登記處
Bermuda: 百慕達：
Conyers Corporate Services (Bermuda) Limited Conyers Corporate Services (Bermuda) Limited
Clarendon House Clarendon House
2 Church Street 2 Church Street
Hamilton, HM 11 Bermuda Hamilton, HM 11 Bermuda
Hong Kong: 香港：
Union Registrars Limited 聯合證券登記有限公司
Suites 3301–04, 33/F. 香港
Two Chinachem Exchange Square 北角
338 King’s Road 英皇道338號
North Point 華懋交易廣場2期
Hong Kong 33樓3301–04室
BERMUDA REGISTERED OFFICE 百慕達註冊辦事處
Clarendon House Clarendon House
2 Church Street 2 Church Street
Hamilton HM 11 Hamilton HM 11
Bermuda Bermuda
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS IN HONG KONG 香港主要營業地點
Block E, 9th Floor, Phase 1, Kaiser Estate 香港
41 Man Yue Street 九龍
Hunghom 紅磡
Kowloon 民裕街41號
Hong Kong 凱旋工商中心1期9樓E座
STOCK CODE 股份代號
167 167
WEBSITES 網址
www.idthk.com www.idthk.com
Annual Report 2021 年報 3智 能 家 居
Connected Home & Communication
洞悉先機
Ahead of TimeIDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Chairman’sStatement
主席報告書
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, 致各股東：
On behalf of the board (the “Board”) of directors (each, a “Director”) of IDT International 本人謹代表萬威國際有限公司（「本公司」，連
Limited (the “Company”, together with its subsidiaries, collectively, the “Group” or “we” or 同其附屬公司統稱為「本集團」或「我們」）之董
“us”), I am pleased to present the Group’s annual results for the year ended 31 December 事（各「董事」）會（「董事會」）欣然提呈本集團
2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year” and for the year ended 31 December 2020, “FY2020”). 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度（「二
零二一年年度」或「本年度」及截至二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度「二零二零年年度」）之
年度業績。
FINANCIAL RESULTS 財務業績
The Group’s total revenue for the Year amounted to approximately HK$17.1 million 於本年度，本集團錄得總收益約為港幣17.1百
(FY2020: approximately HK$55.4 million), which was due to the global impact of the 萬元（二零二零年年度：約港幣55.4百萬元）。
COVID-19, leading to the economic downturn. 這是由於全球範圍內的COVID-19造成的疫情
影響，導致經濟低迷。
6 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Chairman’s Statement主席報告書
Gross profit of the Year totalled approximately HK$1.8 million (FY2020: approximately 本年度毛利總額約為港幣1.8百萬元（二零二
HK$5.6 million). Gross profit was decreased by approximately 67.9% for the Year, 零年年度：約港幣5.6百萬元）。於本年度毛
the Group continues to face with the challenges with the unprecedent impact of the 利減少約67.9%，本集團於本年度持續面臨
COVID-19 in the Year, the reduction of overseas sales leads to a decrease in gross COVID-19前所未有的影響帶來的挑戰，海外
profit. The gross profit margin was increased from approximately 10.1% for FY2020 to 銷售量減少，導致毛利下降。毛利率由二零
approximately 10.5% for FY2021. 二零年年度之約10.1%增加至二零二一年年度
之約10.5%。
The Group continued to execute stringent cost controls and streamline organisational 本集團繼續實施嚴格的成本控制、精簡組織
structure and operational procedures. Total operating expenses of the Group, including 架構和運營程序。本集團於本年度的總營運
research costs, distribution and selling expenses and general administrative expenses, 開支約為港幣64.8百萬元（二零二零年年度：
amounted to approximately HK$64.8 million for the Year (FY2020: approximately 約港幣91.5百萬元）。該等開支包括研究費
HK$91.5 million). The total operating expense was decreased by approximately 29.2% 用、分銷及銷售開支及一般行政開支。總營
since the distribution and selling expense has dropped for approximately 63.3% which was 運開支減少約29.2%乃因分銷及銷售開支下跌
attributable to the decrease in turnover. Further, research expense reduced by 49.5%. 約63.3%，可歸因於營業額減少。此外，本集
團研究開支減少49.5%。
Other income during the Year was mainly come from subleasing of right-of-use assets/ 本年度其他收入乃主要來自分租使用權資
rented premises amounted to approximately HK$1.9 million (FY2020: approximately 產╱出租物業約港幣1.9百萬元（二零二零年年
HK$10.9 million). The other losses, net during the Year was recorded as approximately 度：約港幣10.9百萬元）。本年度錄得其他虧
HK$0.6 million (FY2020: approximately HK$4.7 million), and it was mainly attributable to 損，淨額約港幣0.6百萬元（二零二零年年度：
provision for losses on litigations. 約港幣4.7百萬元），其乃主要由於訴訟虧損撥
備。
Charge of loss allowance on financial assets for the Year was recorded as approximately 本年度扣除金融資產虧損撥備約為港幣8.7百
HK$8.7 million (FY2020: approximately HK$18.2 million) due to decrease in credit loss of 萬元（二零二零年年度：約港幣18.2百萬元），
trade receivables. 乃由於應收賬款的信貸虧損減少。
Loss for FY2021 was approximately HK$84.2 million (FY2020: approximately HK$95.8 二零二一年年度之虧損約為港幣84.2百萬元
million). （二零二零年年度：約港幣95.8百萬元）。
Annual Report 2021 年報 7IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Chairman’s Statement
主席報告書
OUTLOOK 前景
Because of the outbreak of COVID-19 since early 2020 (and there had been several major 由於COVID-19自二零二零年年初開始於內地
waves of spread) in the Mainland as well as other parts of the globe, the Group’s business 及全球其他地區爆發（並出現數波大規模蔓延
has been significantly affected. Due to resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021 and 浪潮），本集團業務受到嚴重影響。由於二
the impact of the trade war on the global supply chain, the consumer electronic industry 零二一年COVID-19疫情反覆及貿易戰對全球
has suffered serious disruption in development. Because of such outbreak, a significant 供應鏈的衝擊，消費電子產品行業發展深受
number of orders placed or expected to be placed by the customers of the Group had 其害。由於疫情爆發，本集團客戶已經或預
been cancelled or not proceeded. With ease of adverse impact of COVID-19 in overseas 計將下達的訂單大量取消或不再執行。隨著
countries and that the PRC government might ultimately adjust its zero-COVID policy by COVID-19對海外國家的不利影響緩解，以及
abandoning lockdown measures, it is hopeful that the orders from overseas customers will 中國政府或會最終調整COVID-19清零政策而
regain momentum and confidence in the China-based suppliers which will no longer be 放棄封鎖措施，中國供應商終將解除封鎖干
disrupted by lockdown. 擾，海外客戶訂單有望重拾動力及信心。
Thus, the Board considered that the impact of COVID-19 should only be temporary, and 因此，董事會認為COVID-19影響是暫時性
the situation should improve substantially thereafter. The business of the Group should 的，後續形勢勢必大幅好轉。本集團業務將
remain sustainable in the long run. 保持長期可持續發展。
In long term, the Company is adjusting its business focus on design and sales which only 長遠來看，本公司正在調整業務重點，以專
require light asset. 注於僅需輕資產的設計及銷售。
8 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Chairman’s Statement主席報告書
APPRECIATION 致謝
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to express my gratitude to all shareholders 本人謹代表董事會感謝各股東及業務夥伴一
and business associates for the continuous support. Our deep appreciation also goes to 直對本集團之支持，亦感謝管理團隊及全體
the management team and staff members for their hard work and dedication in the past 員工於上個財政期間內的辛勤工作及盡心服
financial period. 務。
Zhu Yongning 行政總裁
Chief Executive Officer 朱永寧
31 May 2022 二零二二年五月三十一日
Hong Kong 香港
Annual Report 2021 年報 9IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors and Senior Management of the Group
本集團董事及高級管理層
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 執行董事
Zhu Yongning 朱永寧
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, aged 53. Mr. Zhu graduated from Fudan 行政總裁兼執行董事，53歲。朱先生畢業於
University of Shanghai with a master degree in international finance, and is a senior 上海復旦大學國際金融專業，取得碩士學
economist. He has over 30 years of working experience in the financial sector. Mr. Zhu 位，為高級經濟師，彼有超過30年金融專業
is the director of Christine International Holding Limited, whose stock code is 01210, 工作經驗。朱先生現亦擔任克莉絲汀國際控
and Jiangsu Nandasoft Technology Company Limited, whose stock code is 08045. Since 股有限公司（股份代號：01210）及江蘇南大蘇
1990, Mr. Zhu served successively of the international business department of China 富特科技股份有限公司（股份代號：08045）之
Construction Bank in Jiangsu province, president of a sub-branch of China Investment Bank 董事。自一九九零年起，朱先生曾先後供職
under its Jiangsu branch, sub-branch of China Everbright Bank. 於江蘇省中國建設銀行國際業務部、中國投
資銀行江蘇省分行支行行長、中國光大銀行
某支行行長。
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 非執行董事
Cui Xiao 崔嘯
Non-Executive Director, aged 44, joined Hongtu SanPower Advanced Technology 非執行董事，44歲，於二零零一年加盟江蘇
Limited* (“Hongtu Sanbao”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jiangsu Hongtu High 宏圖高科技股份有限公司（「江蘇宏圖」）之全
Technology Co., Ltd.* (“Jiangsu Hongtu”) in 2001 and served as Hongtu Sanbao’s director 資附屬公司宏圖三胞高科技術有限公司（「宏
of information department, network maintenance department, and is currently working at 圖三胞」），並曾擔任宏圖三胞之信息部部
the human resources corporate governance and administration centre of Hongtu Sanbao. 長、網絡維護部部長，現就職於宏圖三胞
Since 28 February 2020, Mr. Cui is a supervisor of Jiangsu Hongtu, a company established in 之人力企管行政中心。自二零二零年二月
the People’s Republic of China with limited liability, whose shares are listed on the Shanghai 二十八日為江蘇宏圖（一間於中華人民共和國
Stock Exchange (stock code: 600122). He obtained a bachelor degree in economics and 成立的有限公司，其股份於上海證券交易所
administration management from Nanjing Politics College of People’s Liberation Army of 上市（股份代號：600122））之監事。崔先生於
China in 2012. 二零一二年自中國人民解放軍南京政治學院
獲取經濟與行政管理學士學位。
10 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors and Senior Management of the Group
本集團董事及高級管理層
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 獨立非執行董事
Zhou Meilin 周美林
Independent Non-Executive Director, the chairman of the audit committee, a member 獨立非執行董事、審核委員會主席以及提名
of nomination and corporate governance committee and remuneration committee of 及企業管治委員會和董事會薪酬委員會成
the Board, aged 55. Mr. Zhou is a Chinese practicing lawyer, Chinese certified public 員，55歲。周先生是中國執業律師、中國註
accountant (Non-practicing), tax agent, and part-time teacher of Nanjing University of 冊會計師（非執業）、稅務師、南京財經大學
finance and economics. 兼職教師。
From January 2016, Mr. Zhou joined Jiangsu Deqing law firm as lawyer. Before that, Mr. 自二零一六年一月至今，周先生加入江蘇德
Zhou worked for Nanjing Xuanwu Tax Bureau from July 1985 to December 2015, took 擎律師事務所任律師。在此之前，周先生於
the different positions including tax administration, tax collection and management, financial 一九八五年七月至二零一五年十二月期間
management, tax audit (from 1995 to 1996, Mr. Zhou worked for Nanjing Shicheng 在江蘇省南京市玄武區稅務局工作，從事過
Accounting (Tax) Firm). During the period in the tax bureau, Mr. Zhou was employed as a 稅政、徵管、財務管理、稽查等崗位（其中
part-time teacher in tax system, participated in the compilation of provincial and municipal 一九九五年至一九九六年，周先生就職於南
tax system risk platforms and inspection guidelines for many times, and participated in 京石城會計（稅務）師事務所）。在稅務局任
dozens of enterprise bankruptcy, reform, restructuring and merger and acquisition work. 職期間，周先生被聘為稅務系統兼職教師，
By virtue of his profound business skills, Mr. Zhou has won the title of tax system business 多次參加省市稅務系統風險平台和稽查指南
expert for many times. Mr. Zhou is an independent non-executive director of Jiangsu 的編寫，參加過數十起企業破產、改制、重
Nandasoft Technology Company Limited* whose share are listed in Hong Kong with stock 組、併購工作，憑藉其深厚的業務功力多次
code 08045 since 3 December 2020. Mr. Zhou is an independent non-executive director 獲得稅務系統業務能手的稱號。自二零二零
of Jiangsu ZhongQi Technology Company Limited* (stock code: SZ300575) since 22 April 年十二月三日起，周先生獲委任為江蘇南大
2021. 蘇富特科技股份有限公司（香港上市公司，股
份代號：08045）獨立非執行董事。自二零二一
年四月二十二日起，周先生獲委任為江蘇中
旗科技股份有限公司（股份代號：SZ300575）
獨立非執行董事。
Mr. Zhou has extensive experience in accounting, internal control, financial statement 周先生在會計、企業內部控制、財務報表分
analysis, tax planning and related laws; he is good at enterprise initial public offerings, 析、稅務籌劃及相關法律等方面有豐富的經
reorganisation, merger and acquisition, bankruptcy, tax dispute settlement, tax risk 驗，擅長企業上市、重組、併購、破產、稅
prevention and tax planning. Mr. Zhou holds a bachelor’s degree from Nanjing Normal 收爭議的解決、稅務風險防範和稅務籌劃。
University. 周先生擁有南京師範大學本科學歷。
Annual Report 2021 年報 11IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors and Senior Management of the Group
本集團董事及高級管理層
Zhou Rui 周銳
Independent Non-Executive Director, the chairman of the nomination and corporate 獨立非執行董事、提名及企業管治委員會主
governance committee, and a member of the remuneration committee and the audit 席兼薪酬委員會及董事會審核委員會成員，
committee of the Board, aged 36. Mr. Zhou Rui is the vice president of China Galaxy 36歲。自二零一五年至今，周銳先生任職中
Securities from 2015 up to present, mainly responsible for business development and 國銀河證券股份有限公司副總裁，主要負責
providing investment, fund-raising consultant service to public and private company. During 帶領團隊開拓業務及為公眾及私人公司提供
August 2012 to February 2014, Mr. Zhou Rui worked in Beijing Hony Future Investment 投融資顧問服務。周銳先生於二零一二年八
Advisor Ltd as a senior manager, responsible for finding right investment project, executing 月至二零一四年二月擔任北京弘毅遠方投資
due diligence and investment and after investment management. During August 2009 顧問有限公司高級經理職務，負責投資項目
to August 2012, Mr. Zhou Rui served as a supervisor of China International Capital 挖掘、調研、投資和投後管理等。周銳先生
Corporation Limited, responsible for securities trading system’s design and testing. Mr. 於二零零九年八月至二零一二年八月擔任中
Zhou Rui holds a master degree in Mathematics from Nanjing University. 國國際金融有限公司主管，負責證券交易系
統的設計和測試工作。周銳先生持有南京大
學數學碩士學位。
12 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors and Senior Management of the Group
本集團董事及高級管理層
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文
Independent Non-Executive Director and the chairman of the remuneration committee 獨立非執行董事兼薪酬委員會主席、提名及
and the nomination and corporate governance committee and the audit committee of the 企業管治委員會以及董事會審核委員會成
Board, aged 56. Mr. Xu is the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and executive 員，56歲。徐先生現任長江證券國際金融集
Director of Changjiang Securities International Financial Group Limited, and independent 團有限公司董事會主席兼行政總裁，並為執
non-executive Director of Shenzhen Zhongheng Hwafa Co., Ltd, the shares of which are 行董事，及擔任深交所上市公司深圳中恒華
listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE: 000020 and 200020). Mr. Xu served as the 髮股份有限公司（股票代碼：000020及200020）
deputy general manager of China Construction Bank Hubei Provincial Trust and Investment 獨立非執行董事一職。徐先生於一九九零
Corporation (中國建設銀行湖北省信託投資公司) from December 1990 to October 年十二月至一九九五年十月擔任中國建設
1995. He worked in Guotai Securities Limited Hubei Branch* (國泰證券有限公司湖北分 銀行湖北省信託投資公司副總經理。彼於
公司) as the deputy general manager, and Guotai Junan Securities Limited Jiangxi Branch* 一九九五年十月至二零零二年十一月先後擔
(國泰君安証券股份有限公司江西分公司) as the general manager from October 任國泰證券有限公司湖北分公司常務副總、
1995 to November 2002. Mr. Xu worked as president in Golden Sun Securities Limited* 國泰君安証券股份有限公司江西分公司總經
(國盛證券有限公司) from November 2002 to April 2006. Mr. Xu served as the chairman 理。徐先生於二零零二年十一月至二零零六
in Changjiang BNP Paribas Peregrine Securities Co., Ltd. from April 2006 to May 2007. 年四月擔任國盛證券有限公司總裁。徐先生
Mr. Xu was the executive vice president and the secretary of the board of Changjiang 於二零零六年四月至二零零七年五月擔任長
Securities Company Limited from May 2007 to March 2016. Mr. Xu has over 30 years 江巴黎百富勤證券有限責任公司董事長。徐
of experience working in the financial industry, and he particularly worked in the area of 先生於二零零七年五月至二零一六年三月擔
securities for more than 20 years. He is very familiar with China and overseas financial 任長江證券股份有限公司執行副總裁兼董事
markets and products, with extensive experience in the management of financial institution 會秘書。徐先生從事金融行業三十餘年，證
and investment. Mr. Xu holds a doctorate degree in Management Science and Engineering 券行業二十餘年，熟知中國境內外金融市場
from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. 和產品，擁有豐富的金融機構管理和投資經
驗。徐先生擁有華中科技大學管理科學與工
程博士學位。
* For identification purpose only
Annual Report 2021 年報 13智 能 教 育 與 學 習
Smart Learning & Immersive Technology
樂於探索
Connecting Exploration with FunIDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management
Discussion and
Analysis
管理層討論及分析
16 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
BUSINESS REVIEW 業務回顧
Due to resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021 and the impact of the trade war 於二零二一年，由於COVID-19疫情反覆，
on the global supply chain of chips, the consumer electronic industry has suffered serious 加之貿易戰對全球芯片供應鏈帶來的影響，
disruption in development. IDT International Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 嚴重衝擊了消費電子行業的發展。萬威國際
(collectively, the “Group” or “we” or “us”) continued to devote efforts in reshaping 有限公司（「本公司」）及其附屬公司（統稱「本
product development direction, customer base and commercial terms, and in streamlining 集團」或「我們」）繼續致力於重塑產品發展方
its organisational structure, operation processes and administrative costs. For the year 向、客戶群及商業條款，並精簡組織架構、
ended 31 December 2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year”), the Group recorded sales revenue 營運流程及行政成本。截至二零二一年十二
of approximately HK$17.1 million (for the year ended 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”): 月三十一日止年度（「二零二一年年度」或「本
HK$55.4 million) and gross profit of approximately HK$1.8 million (FY2020: HK$5.6 年度」），本集團實現銷售收入約港幣17.1百
million). 萬元（截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度
（「二零二零年年度」）：港幣55.4百萬元），及
毛利約港幣1.8百萬元（二零二零年年度：港幣
5.6百萬元）。
Meanwhile, management implemented various measures to improve lean manufacturing, 同時，管理層實施了加強精益製造、精簡人
streamline manpower and achieve business model reform. Due to the sudden resurgence 力和實施商業模式變革的多項措施。由於中
of the pandemic in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC” or “China”), the PRC 華人民共和國（「中國」）國內疫情突然復發，
government has called for private enterprises to minimise or suspend operations, and 中國政府要求非民生企業盡量減少或暫停辦
imposed lockdowns in various areas. In response to the government’s appeal and to 公，眾多區域封閉，人員禁行，本集團響應
minimise incurring non-operating costs, the Group decided to temporarily discontinue 政府號召，同時減少非營業成本消耗，於二
production at our Shenzhen factory in March 2022. 零二二年三月，決定深圳工廠暫時停產。
The Group closely monitors cash flow through reshaping our customer base and 本集團透過重整客戶群以及與業務合作夥伴
renegotiating commercial terms with our business partners. As at 31 December 2021, 重新商議商業條款，密切監控現金流量。於
trade receivables decreased by approximately 12.5% to approximately HK$0.7 million 二零二一年十二月三十一日，應收賬款金額
(2020: approximately HK$0.8 million). In order to optimise inventory management, 減少約12.5%至約港幣0.7百萬元（二零二零
we reduced the number of stock keeping units (“SKU”), such that inventories was 年：約港幣0.8百萬元）。為了更有效的存貨管
maintained at a low level of approximately HK$5.2 million as at 31 December 2021 (2020: 理，我們縮減庫存量單位（「SKU」）數量，使於
approximately HK$7.1 million). 二零二一年十二月三十一日存貨維持於約港
幣5.2百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣7.1百萬元）
的低水平。
VALUE MANUFACTURING SERVICES (“VMS”) 價值製造服務（「VMS」）
The global electronics industry remained sluggish in FY2021 due to the global coronavirus 於二零二一年年度，受全球新冠肺炎疫情的
pandemic, which caused logistics disruptions and difficulties in work resumption of supply 影響，物流運輸受阻，供應鏈上游企業復工
chain upstream enterprises. For FY2021, the VMS business recorded sales revenue of 困難，導致全球電子產品行業持續低迷。二
approximately HK$4.6 million (FY2020: approximately HK$24.7 million), representing 零二一年年度，VMS業務的銷售收入約為港幣
approximately 26.9% of the Group’s total revenue. 4.6百萬元（二零二零年年度：約港幣24.7百萬
元），佔本集團總收入的約26.9%。
Annual Report 2021 年報 17IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
Despite the lower sales revenue, the research and development team of VMS continued 儘管銷售收入較低，但為了保持技術領先性
to maintain close relationships with global innovative technology partners to explore 和市場競爭力，VMS研發團隊不斷和全球新技
new partnership opportunities, such as the joint development of the E-ink watch, pulse 術創新合作夥伴保持緊密聯繫，尋求新的合
wave transit time (PWTT) smart blood pressure measurement and dynamic heart 作機會，如共同開發E-ink墨水屏手錶、脈搏
rate measurement solutions, in order to maintain our technological edge and market 波傳導時間(PWTT)智能血壓測量及心率動態
competitiveness. 測量解決方案。
Management decided to renegotiate more favourable commercial terms with most of our 管理層決定與大多數VMS客戶重新協商達成更
VMS customers, with an aim to improve gross margins and speed up the recovery of trade 優惠的商業條款，以提高毛利率為目標，及
receivables, which will help build a robust foundation for future business development. 加快回收應收賬款。這有助於為未來的業務
發展奠定更健康的基礎。
OREGON SCIENTIFIC (“OS”) OREGON SCIENTIFIC（「OS」）
For FY2021, the OS business recorded total sales revenue of approximately HK$12.5 於二零二一年年度，OS業務的銷售收入總
million (FY2020: approximately HK$30.7 million), decreasing by approximately 59.3% over 計約為港幣12.5百萬元（二零二零年年度：約
FY2020, representing approximately 73.1% of the Group’s total revenue. The decrease in 港幣30.7百萬元），較二零二零年年度減少約
revenue was mainly due to the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic. 59.3%，佔本集團總收入的約73.1%，收入減少
主要因受到全球新冠肺炎疫情的影響。
Smart Learning and Immersive Technology (“SLIT”) and health care will be a focus 智能教育與學習（「SLIT」）和醫療保健領域將
category. The Group has commenced a partnership with a leading hospital and sleep 是我們重點關註的領域，本集團已著手與中
science research institute in Jiangsu, China, to develop projects on sleep improvement and 國江蘇省一家領先醫院及睡眠科學研究所開
health tracking, with strong focus on the demand for health care assistance products from 展睡眠改善和健康監測項目，重點關注中老
middle-aged and elderly consumer groups, which will be significant for the Sport, Fitness 年消費群體對健康輔助產品的需求，這些項
and Health (“SFH”) category. With online learning gradually becoming a major method for 目將在運動、健體及健康（「SFH」）領域發揮重
education in the pandemic, opportunities in the SLIT market have increased. The Group 要作用。線上教學逐步成為疫情期間的主要
is building a strategic partnership with China’s Intellectual Property Publishing House to 學習方式，SLIT的市場機會更多，本集團正在
commence development on new products, in order to satisfy the massive demand for 與中國知識產權出版社建立戰略合作夥伴關
smart learning products from consumers in China. 係，開始開發新產品，以滿足中國消費者對
智能學習產品的巨大需求。
WORKING CAPITAL 營運資金
The inventory balance as at 31 December 2021 was approximately HK$5.2 million, 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，存貨結餘約
decreased by approximately 26.8% compared to approximately HK$7.1 million as at 31 為港幣5.2百萬元，較於二零二零年十二月
December 2020. The inventory turnover days increased to 147 days (FY2020: 87 days). 三十一日之約港幣7.1百萬元下降約26.8%。存
Trade debtor balances as at 31 December 2021 was approximately HK$0.7 million, 貨週轉日數增加至147日（二零二零年年度：
decreased by approximately 12.5% compared to approximately HK$0.8 million shown as 87日）。於二零二一年十二月三十一日，應
at 31 December 2020. Trade debtor’s turnover days were decreased to 16 days (FY2020: 收賬款結餘約為港幣0.7百萬元，較二零二零
97 days). 年十二月三十一日之約港幣0.8百萬元下降約
12.5%。應收賬款週轉日數減少至16日（二零二
零年年度：97日）。
18 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
The finance lease receivables relate to the subletting of factory and office space to 融資租賃應收款項與將工廠及辦公室空間轉
prospective independent third party tenants to generate revenue of the Group. It is a 租予潛在獨立第三方租戶以為本集團產生收
reclassification of the “rights of use of assets” previously recognized by the Group as 益有關。此乃本集團先前因就該等物業訂立
a result of entering into the lease agreements for these properties and the expected 租賃協議而對本集團先前確認的「使用權資
discounted income from the sub-leases for the remaining term of the sub-leases. 產」以及就該分租餘下期間的分租預期貼現收
入的重新分類。
Such subleases maximise the Company’s resources from the operation perspective, 就運營方面而言，該等分租充分利用本公司
increase the Company’s cash inflow and hence are in the interest of the Company and its 資源，增加本公司現金流入量，因此符合本
shareholders. 公司及其股東利益。
CAPITAL STRUCTURE 資本架構
The net liabilities value of the Group as at 31 December 2021 stood at approximately 本集團於二零二一年十二月三十一日的負債
HK$305.6 million (FY2020: approximately HK$221.3 million), approximately 38.1% higher 淨值維持於約港幣305.6百萬元（二零二零年
than that of 2020. As at 31 December 2021, there was 2,599,993,088 issued and fully paid 年度：約港幣221.3百萬元），較二零二零年
shares with HK$0.1 each. The net liabilities value per share as at 31 December 2021 was 高出約38.1%。於二零二一年十二月三十一
approximately -11.8HK cents (FY2020: approximately -8.5HK cents). 日，本集團擁有2,599,993,088股每股面值港
幣0.1元的已發行及繳足股份。於二零二一年
十二月三十一日，每股股份之負債淨值約為
港幣-11.8仙（二零二零年年度：約為港幣-8.5
仙）。
GEARING RATIO 資產負債比率
As at 31 December 2021, the Group’s total assets amounted to approximately HK$81.3 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團的總
million. Total liabilities amounted to approximately HK$386.9 million, the Group expresses 資產約為港幣81.3百萬元，總負債約為港幣
its gearing ratio as a percentage of borrowings over total assets which was approximately 386.9百萬元。本集團之資產負債比率（即借款
321.9% (2020: approximately 181.4%). The increase in the loan from a shareholder for 佔總資產之百分比）為約321.9%（二零二零年：
financial support of the Company resulted in the increase in the gearing ratio. 約181.4%）。來自一名股東為本公司提供財務
支持的貸款增加導致資產負債比率增加。
LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT 流動資金及財務管理
As at 31 December 2021, bank balances and cash of the Group, including restricted bank 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團之銀
balances, amounted to approximately HK$52.9 million (2020: approximately HK$13.1 行結餘及現金（包括受限制銀行結餘）約為港
million). During the Year, the Group generated its funds mainly from operating or financing 幣52.9百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣13.1百萬
activities. The net cash position (bank balances and cash) as at 31 December 2021 元）。於本年度，本集團之資金主要來源於經
amounted to approximately HK$52.9 million (2020: approximately HK$13.1 million). 營或融資活動。於二零二一年十二月三十一
日，淨現金狀況（銀行結餘及現金）約為港幣
52.9百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣13.1百萬元）。
Annual Report 2021 年報 19IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
CHARGES ON GROUP ASSETS 本集團資產抵押
At 31 December 2021, there were no finance charges on the Group’s assets. 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團概無
任何用作財務抵押之資產。
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 資本開支
There was no capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment for FY2021 (FY2020: 於二零二一年年度，並無物業、機器及設備
approximately HK$0.3 million). 之資本開支（二零二零年年度：約港幣0.3百萬
元）。
There were no material acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries and associated companies 於二零二一年年度，本集團並無進行有關附
in the course of FY2021. 屬公司及聯營公司之重大收購或出售。
DIVIDEND 股息
The Directors of the Company do not recommend any dividend for FY2021 (FY2020: Nil). 本公司董事不建議派付二零二一年年度之任
何股息（二零二零年年度：無）。
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS 或然負債╱訴訟
(a) In December 2020, there was a litigation initiated by a supplier of the Group in (a) 於二零二零年十二月，本集團於香港的
Hong Kong claiming the allegedly due and unpaid balance of purchase orders against 一名供應商鑒於本集團附屬公司單方面
a subsidiary of the Group in Hong Kong in view of unilateral cancellation of purchase 取消金額約為334,000美元（相當於約港
orders by the subsidiary of the Group for a sum of approximately US$334,000 幣2.6百萬元）的採購訂單而提起訴訟，
(equivalent to approximately HK$2.6 million). The management of the Group, 就其聲稱的本集團於香港的一間附屬公
having obtained the legal advice from an independent legal counsel, estimated that 司採購訂單之到期未付結餘提出申索。
the Group will likely be liable to pay for the total and, therefore, the Group had 本集團管理層經獲取獨立法律顧問之法
recognised the provision for losses on litigations of approximately HK$2.3 million 律意見後，估計本集團將有可能傾向於
in profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2020. During the year ended 31 支付總額，因此本集團於截至二零二零
December 2021, the litigation is still in process. 年十二月三十一日止年度之損益內確認
訴訟虧損撥備約港幣2.3百萬元。截至二
零二一年十二月三十一日止年度，該訴
訟仍在受理中。
20 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
Subsequently, on 12 April 2022, the Group has filed a Consent Summons for 其後，於二零二二年四月十二日，本集
settlement to the District Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 團已向香港特別行政區區域法院提交和
According to the Consent Summons, the settlement sum was reduced to 解同意傳訊令狀。根據同意傳訊令狀，
approximately US$130,000 (equivalent to approximately HK$1.0 million) and was 和解金額減至約130,000美元（相當於約
agreed to be settled by instalments on without admission of liability basis. On 11 港幣1.0百萬元）並同意在不承認責任之
May 2022, the Consent Summons was approved. As a result, a reversal of provision 基礎上分期付款結清。於二零二二年
for losses on litigations of approximately HK$1.3 million had been recognised in 五月十一日，同意傳訊令狀獲批准。因
“Provision for losses on litigations, net” in “Other losses, net” in the consolidated 此，訴訟虧損撥備撥回約港幣1.3百萬
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 元已於截至二零二一年十二月三十一日
December 2021. 止年度的綜合損益及其他全面收益表內
「其他虧損，淨額」中的「訴訟虧損撥備
淨額」確認。
(b) In 2020, the Group received a notice from a District Court in the PRC (the “PRC (b) 於二零二零年，本集團接獲中國地方法
Court”) stating that a supplier of the Group in the PRC has initiated legal action 院（「中國法院」）的通知，稱本集團於中
against certain subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by claiming the allegedly 國的一名供應商已針對本集團的若干中
due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees from the Group. In respect of the 國附屬公司提起法律訴訟，就其聲稱的
aforesaid due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees approximately HK$5.5 應收本集團分包費之到期未付結餘提出
million had been recognised in “Trade payables” at 31 December 2021 and 2020. 申索。上述到期未付分包費結餘約為港
幣5.5百萬元，已於二零二一年及二零二
零年十二月三十一日於「應付賬款」內確
認。
According to judgements dated 16 August 2021 issued by the PRC Court, 根據中國法院日期為二零二一年八月
the Group was liable to make payment of approximately RMB4.9 million and 十六日之判決，本集團須分別支付約人
approximately RMB0.1 million (equivalent to approximately HK$6.0 million and 民幣4.9百萬元及約人民幣0.1百萬元（相
approximately HK$0.1 million) as settlement of subcontracting fees and material 當於約港幣6.0百萬元及約港幣0.1百萬
costs, respectively. The Group has then filed an appeal for such judgements to the 元）以結算分包費及材料成本。本集團
PRC Court. 已就該等判決向中國法院提出上訴。
Based on the legal advice obtained from an independent legal counsel, the 基於一名獨立法律顧問的法律建議，本
management of the Group considered no further provision for litigation was 集團管理層認為，於截至二零二一年
required to be made for the year ended 31 December 2021. Subsequent to the 十二月三十一日止年度內無須為有關訴
financial year end date of 31 December 2021 and up to the date of approving these 訟進一步計提撥備。於財政年結日二零
consolidated financial statements, the litigation is still in process. 二一年十二月三十一日後及直至批准該
等綜合財務報表日期，訴訟仍在受理
中。
Annual Report 2021 年報 21IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
(c) During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Group received several notices (c) 於截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年
from the PRC Court stating that a group of ten individual former employees and 度，本集團接獲中國法院的若干通知，
three individual former employees of the Group in the PRC have initiated legal 稱由本集團中國的十名個別前任僱員及
action against subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by claiming compensation of the 三名個別前任僱員組成的小組已對本集
dismissal of labour contract in view of breach of terms in employment agreement 團於中國的附屬公司提起訴訟，要求就
with the Group. Pursuant to the judgements made by the court of the PRC, the 本集團違反僱傭協議中的條款而解除勞
Group was ordered to make payment amounting to approximately HK$2.8 million 動合同獲得賠償。根據中國法院的判
which had been recognised in “Provision for losses on litigations, net” in “Other 決，本集團被責令立即支付約港幣2.8百
losses, net” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 萬元，該款項已於截至二零二一年十二
income for the year ended 31 December 2021. 月三十一日止年度的綜合損益及其他全
面收益表內「其他虧損，淨額」中的「訴
訟虧損撥備淨額」確認。
For the case against the group of ten individuals former employees, which payment 就十名前任僱員的案件而言，向彼等支
to them was approximately RMB1.7 million (equivalent to approximately HK$2.0 付的款項約為人民幣1.7百萬元（相當於
million); the Group has been trying to reach a settlement agreement with them 約港幣2.0百萬元）；在中國法院作出判
subsequent to the judgement issued by the PRC Court. As for the remaining cases 決後，本集團一直試圖與彼等達成和解
of three individuals former employees, which the total payments to them were 協議。至於餘下的三名前任僱員案件，
approximately RMB0.7 million (equivalent to approximately HK$0.8 million), the 向彼等支付的款項總額約為人民幣0.7百
Group has filed for appeals for such judgements to the PRC Court. 萬元（相當於約港幣0.8百萬元），本集團
已就該等判決向中國法院提出上訴。
Subsequent to the year end date of 31 December 2021 and up to the date of 於年結日二零二一年十二月三十一日後
approving these consolidated financial statements, the Group has yet to reach a 及直至批准該等綜合財務報表日期，本
settlement agreement with the group of ten former employees and the litigations 集團尚未與十名前任僱員達成和解協
concerning the three individuals former employees are still in process. 議，有關三名個別前任僱員的訴訟仍在
受理中。
Other than the disclosure of above and elsewhere in the consolidated financial 除上述及其他於綜合財務報表中的披露
statements, at the end of the reporting period, the Group was not involved in any 外，於報告期末，本集團未牽涉任何其
other material litigation or arbitration. As far as the management of the Group was 他重大訴訟或仲裁。據本集團管理層所
aware, the Group had no other material litigation or claim which was pending or 知，本集團並無其他未決或威脅本集團
threatened against the Group. At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Group was the 的重大訴訟或申索。於二零二一年及二
defendant of certain non-material litigations, and also a party to certain litigations 零二零年十二月三十一日，本集團為
arising from the ordinary course of business of the Group. The likely outcome of 若干非重大訴訟的被告，亦於本集團的
these contingent liabilities, litigations or other legal proceedings cannot be ascertained 日常業務過程中牽涉若干訴訟。目前尚
with reasonable certainty at present, but the management of the Group believes 無法確定該等或有負債、訴訟或其他法
that any possible legal liability which may be incurred from the aforesaid cases will 律程序的可能結果，但本集團管理層認
not have any material impact on the financial position or results of the Group. 為，上述案件可能引起的任何可能法律
責任將不會對本集團的財務狀況或業績
產生任何重大影響。
22 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
HUMAN RESOURCES AND REMUNERATION POLICY 人力資源及薪酬政策
As at 31 December 2021, the Group had 353 employees. The Group fully recognises the 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團聘有
importance of its employees who contribute significantly to its success and continues to 353名僱員。本集團深明僱員對本集團取得今
maintain and upgrade the capabilities of its workforce by providing them with adequate 日成就實在功不可沒，並為員工提供充足及
and regular training. 定期培訓，藉以保持及不斷提升員工之工作
表現。
The Group’s remuneration policy is to provide compensation packages at market rates 本集團之薪酬政策旨在提供符合市場水平的
which reward individual’s performance and attract, retain and motivate high quality 薪津組合，以回報僱員之個人表現，並且吸
employees. The compensation packages offered by the Group are comparable with 引、挽留並激勵能幹員工。本集團之薪津
other organisations of similar size and business nature and are reviewed annually. The 組合可與其他規模和業務性質相若之機構提
components of employee’s remuneration package consist of base salary, double pay, 供薪津組合媲美，而本集團亦會每年對此進
fringe benefits including pension scheme, medical insurance, life and personal accident 行檢討。僱員之薪津組合包括基本薪金、雙
insurance, employee compensation and business travel insurance as well as incentives like 糧、額外福利（包括退休保障計劃、醫療保
discretionary cash bonus. 險、人壽及個人意外保險、僱員補償及公幹
保險），以及酌情現金花紅等獎勵。
In Xixiang, Shenzhen, China where the Xixiang facilities are located, staff welfare rates 於西鄉設施之所在地，中國深圳西鄉，員工
are set with reference to the prevailing labour laws in China. Accommodation and leisure 福利水平乃參考中國現行之勞動法而制定。
facilities are also provided to local staff at Xixiang facilities. 駐西鄉設施之本地員工均獲提供住宿及消閒
設施。
The Group’s remuneration philosophy for senior executives is based upon creating a 本集團釐定高級行政人員薪酬之理念為使其
strong link between performance and reward in accordance with the following principles: 表現與回報緊密掛鈎，當中所根據之原則如
下：
1. Fixed salaries and benefits are set at median-market level against comparable 1. 本集團先選出一系列規模及業務性質相
groups of companies selected on the basis of similar size and business nature and 若之公司作比較指標，使固定薪金及福
benchmarked with the prevailing market conditions; and 利定於市場水平的中位數，並以現行市
況作基準；及
2. Performance-related bonus is linked to the achievement of pre-defined performance 2. 績效花紅與能否達到既定表現目標（包
targets including financial targets, performance index and pre-agreed management 括財務目標、表現指數及預先協議之管
objectives. 理目標）掛鈎。
Annual Report 2021 年報 23IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Management Discussion and Analysis
管理層討論及分析
The emolument of the Directors is recommended by the remuneration committee with 董事酬金由薪酬委員會參考業務種類或規模
reference to companies of comparable business type or scale, and the nature and quantity 相若之公司，以及董事會與董事委員會（「董
of work at both Board and Board committee (“Board Committee”) levels (including 事委員會」）之工作性質和工作量（包括會議次
frequency of meetings and nature of agenda items) in order to compensate Directors 數及議題性質）後提出建議，務求董事可就所
reasonably for their time and efforts spent. The Directors’ emolument is approved by the 付出之時間及貢獻得到合理報酬。董事酬金
Board pursuant to the mandate granted by the shareholders at annual general meetings. 由董事會根據股東於股東週年大會上授予之
Remuneration are paid to a Director for appointment as a member of a particular 授權而批准。如董事獲委任為個別委員會之
committee. Non-Executive Directors receive no base pay, benefits, bonus or pension 成員，其將獲發袍金。除出任本公司董事而
except reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the 獲得之可報銷開支外，非執行董事並不獲發
Company. No individual Director is allowed to participate in the procedures for deciding 基本薪金、福利、花紅或退休保障。各董事
his/her individual remuneration package. Full details of the remuneration of and fees paid to 不得參與釐定本身薪酬福利之程序。本年度
the Directors for the Year are set out in note 10 of the consolidated financial statements 支付予董事之薪酬及袍金的詳情載於本年報
contained in this annual report. 綜合財務報表附註10。
24 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
The Group is committed to achieving a up to stipulated standard of corporate governance 為保障全體股東權益及提升企業價值和問責
to safeguard the interests of all shareholders and to enhance corporate value and 性，本集團一向承諾恪守奉行乎合規定水
accountability. Throughout the year ended 31 December 2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year”), 平之企業管治。於截至二零二一年十二月
the Company has applied the principles and complied with all code provisions and where 三十一日止年度（「二零二一年年度」或「本年
applicable, the recommended best practices prescribed in the Corporate Governance 度」），本公司已應用並遵守香港聯合交易所
Code (the “CG Code”) in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities (the 有限公司（「聯交所」）證券上市規則（「上市規
“Listing Rules”) on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”), save 則」）附錄十四所載之企業管治守則（「企業管
for the deviation from the Code Provision C.2.1, C.1.6 and C.1.8. This report describes its 治守則」）的所有原則及守則條文（惟偏離守則
corporate governance practices, explains the applications of the principles of the CG Code 條文第C.2.1條、第C.1.6條及第C.1.8條除外），
and deviations during FY2021. 以及建議最佳常規（如適用）。本報告書詳述
本集團於二零二一年年度之企業管治常規，
並闡釋企業管治守則之原則應用及偏離行為。
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 董事會
Board 董事會
During FY2021, the Board comprised five Directors of whom one is Executive Director 於二零二一年年度，董事會由五名董事組
and one is Non-Executive Director and three are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 成，其中一名為執行董事、一名為非執行董
事及三名為獨立非執行董事。
Brief biographical details of the Directors appear in the Directors and Senior Management 董事之履歷簡表載列於本年報之本集團董事
of the Group section of this annual report. An updated list of Directors of the Company 及高級管理層部分。本公司董事最新的名單
and their respective roles and functions are posted on the Stock Exchange’s website and 及各董事之職責及職能載於聯交所網站及本
the Company’s website. 公司網站。
Appointment, Re-election and Retirement of Directors 董事之委任、重選及告退
The nomination and corporate governance committee of the Board (“NCGC”) reviews 董事會提名及企業管治委員會（「提名及企業
the profiles of the candidates and makes recommendations to the Board on the 管治委員會」）負責考慮審閱候選人之履歷及
appointment, re-election and retirement of Directors. 就董事委任、重選及退任之事宜向董事會作
出建議。
The Company recognises the importance of having the appropriate board composition. In 本公司深明具備洽當的董事會組合之重要。
deciding the board composition, the attributes, skills and expertise among the Directors 在考慮董事會組合的事宜上，就本集團之業
are considered appropriate to effectively lead and control the Group, taking into account 務範疇及性質而言，董事所具備之特質、技
the scope and nature of its operations. The Directors have a mix of core competencies 能及專業知識足以令彼等能有效地引領及監
in areas such as accounting and finance, business and management, industry knowledge 控本集團。董事具有各方面如會計及財務、
and marketing strategies. The size of the Board is conducive to effective discussion and 商業及管理、業界知識及市場策略等專才。
decision-making and has an appropriate balance of independent Directors to exercise 董事會之規模能促使有效之討論及決策；同
independent judgment. 時，董事會亦包含獨立董事作為恰當的平
衡，以使其能作出獨立判斷。
Annual Report 2021 年報 25IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
In accordance with the Company’s Bye-Laws, at each annual general meeting (the “AGM”), 根據本公司章程細則，於每屆股東週年大會
one-third of the Directors shall retire from office. The Directors to retire in every year shall （「股東週年大會」）上，三分之一董事必須退
be those who have been longest in office since their last election or re-election. Further, 任。每年之退任董事須為彼等自上次獲選或
any Director appointed by the Board as an additional Board member or fill in a casual 重選以來任期為最長者。再者，獲董事會委
vacancy shall hold office until the following AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election at 任作為新增董事會成員或填補董事空缺之董
the AGM immediately following their appointments. The new Directors shall not be taken 事將一直留任，直至本公司下屆股東週年大
into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that 會為止，並須於緊隨彼等獲委任後之股東週
AGM. Election and re-election of Directors will be done by separate resolution. 年大會上膺選連任。於釐定股東週年大會上
須輪值告退之董事人數時，毋須計及該新任
董事。選舉及重選董事將以獨立決議案來完
成。
The names and biographical details of the Directors who will offer themselves for 將於應屆股東週年大會上膺選連任董事之姓
re-election at the forthcoming AGM will be set out in the circular accompanying the notice 名及履歷將載於隨附股東週年大會通告之通
of AGM. 函內。
BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY 董事會成員多元化政策
The Board adopted a Board diversity policy setting out the approach to achieve diversity 董事會已採納董事會成員多元化政策，其中
on the Board. The Company recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse 載有實現董事會成員多元化之方式。本公司
Board to enhance the quality of its performance. Board diversity will be considered by the 明白並深信擁有多元化董事會成員能提高董
Company from a number of aspects, including but not limited to cultural and educational 事會表現質素之裨益。本公司會從多個方面
background, experience, skills, knowledge, length of service, age and gender. The Board 衡量董事會之多元化，包括但不限於文化及
composition is reviewed, considered and discussed by the NCGC on an annual basis and it 教育背景、經驗、專長、知識、服務年期、
will make recommendations to the Board after the review. The Company’s business needs 年齡及性別。董事會之組成每年由提名及企
will also be taken into account in determining the optimum composition of the Board. In 業管治委員會作出檢討、考慮及商討，其於
reviewing and assessing the composition of the Board as well as selecting candidate(s), 檢討後會向董事會作出建議。本公司之業務
the NCGC will consider all diversity elements according to the policy and also devised 需要亦會被考慮在內，以釐定董事會之最佳
guidelines for ideal board size, optimum number of executive and non-executive directors 組合。在考慮及評估董事會組合及挑選候任
and board membership criteria. The policy and those guidelines shall be reviewed and 董事時，提名及企業管治委員會將根據該政
revised periodically to meet business needs of the Group. 策考慮所有多元化因素，以及就董事會之適
當成員數目、適當之執行董事及非執行董事
人數，以及擔任董事會成員之先決條件制定
指引，該政策及該等指引將會定期予以檢討
及修訂以合乎本集團的業務需要。
26 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
Induction and Continuous Professional Development 入職及持續專業發展
Newly appointed Directors of the Company will receive induction and reference materials 本公司新委任董事將獲發指引及參考資料，
to enable him/her to familiarise himself/herself with the Group’s history, mission, business 以便其熟識本集團歷史、使命、業務運作、
operations and board and company policies. Each Director is briefed and updated from 董事會及公司政策等。各董事不時獲簡要提
time to time to ensure that he/she has a proper understanding of the operations and 示最新資料，確保其妥為了解本集團運作及
business of the Group and that he/she is fully aware of his/her responsibilities under Statutory 業務，並知悉其根據法定及普通法、上市規
and common law, the Listing Rules, applicable legal and other regulatory requirements and 則、適用法例及其他監管規定與本公司管治
the governance policies of the Company and latest Listing Rules and legislation. 政策須承擔之各項責任、最新上市規則及法
例。
Directors are encouraged to participate in continuous professional development so as to 本集團鼓勵董事參與持續專業發展，以更新
refresh their knowledge and skills for discharging their duties and responsibilities. During 彼等之知識及技能，以便履行其職責。於二
FY2021, relevant reading materials including regulatory update, seminar handouts and latest 零二一年年度，董事已獲提供相關閱讀材料
regulatory case selection etc. have been provided to the Directors for their reference and （包括監管更新資料、研討會材料及最新監管
studying. 案例選等），以供彼等參考及學習。
A summary of training activities taken by the Directors during FY2021 is set out as follows: 以下列表概述於二零二一年年度董事所接受
之培訓活動：
Training activities including in-house
activities/briefings, seminars/talks held
by professional organisations and/or
reading materials on relevant topics
培訓活動（包括公司內部活動╱
會議、專業組織舉辦之研討會╱
Directors 董事 講座及╱或閱讀相關課題之材料）
Executive Director: 執行董事：
Zhu Yongning 朱永寧 √
Non-Executive Director: 非執行董事：
Cui Xiao 崔嘯 √
Independent Non-Executive Directors: 獨立非執行董事：
Zhou Meilin 周美林 √
Zhou Rui 周銳 √
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文 √
Annual Report 2021 年報 27IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 主席及行政總裁
According to the Code Provision C.2.1, the roles of the chairman and the Chief Executive 根據守則條文第C.2.1條，主席與行政總裁
Officer (the “CEO”) should be separate and performed by different individuals to ensure a （「行政總裁」）的角色應有區分，並由不同人
balance of power and authority so that power is not concentrated in any one individual. 士擔任，以確保權力和授權分布均衡，不致
權力僅集中於一位人士。
After the retirement of Mr. Xu Chiming, the then chairman, on 26 June 2019, Mr. Zhu 在徐志明先生於二零一九年六月二十六日退
Yongning, the CEO of the Company, took up the responsibilities of both the chairman and 任後，本公司行政總裁朱永寧先生兼任主席
CEO of the Company. The Board has been trying to recruit a suitable candidate such that 及本公司行政總裁職務。董事會不斷努力
the two roles can be separated since then. However, the Board, after Mr. Zhu has assumed 招聘適合人選，以便此後將兩個角色加以區
the two roles, consider that vesting two roles in the same person could provide the Group 分。然而，於朱先生擔任該等兩個角色後，
with strong and consistent leadership in the development and execution of the Group’s 董事會認為賦予同一人士以兩個角色可就本
business strategies and is beneficial to the Group. The Directors will continue to review 集團業務策略的發展及執行為本集團提供有
the effectiveness of the current structure and assess whether separation of the roles of the 力且一致的領導，並對本集團有益。董事將
chairman and the CEO is necessary. 繼續檢討現時架構的有效性，及評估主席與
行政總裁的角色應否區分的必要性。
Responsibilities of the Board and delegations to management 董事會職責及管理層指派
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for leadership and control of the Company 董事會就領導及監控本公司向股東負責，並
and is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company and its businesses 且透過帶領及監管本公司之事務，共同負責
by directing and supervising the Company’s affairs. 促進本公司及其業務之成功。
The Board focuses on overall strategies and policies with particular attention paid to the 董事會專注於整體策略及政策，尤其關注本
growth and financial performance of the Group. The principal functions of the Board are 集團之增長及財務表現。董事會之主要功能
to: 如下：
• establish the strategic direction and development of the Group; • 制訂本集團之策略性方向及發展；
• determine the broad policies, strategic plans and performance objectives of the • 決定本集團主要政策、策略計劃及績效
Group; 目標；
• monitor management performance; • 監察管理層之表現；
• approve financial plans and annual budgets, major funding proposals, key funding and • 批准財政計劃及年度預算、重大撥款建
investment proposals; 議、主要融資及投資建議；
• oversee the processes for evaluating the adequacy of internal controls, risk • 監察內部監控是否足夠的評估過程、風
management, financial reporting and compliance; 險管理、財務匯報及守規之程序；
• approve the nominations of Directors and appointment of key personnel; and • 批准提名董事及委任主要人員；及
• assume responsibility for corporate governance. • 就企業管治承擔責任。
28 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
The Board delegates daily operations of the Group to Executive Directors and senior 董事會委派執行董事及高級行政人員處理日
executives, while reserving certain key matters for its approval. Decisions of the Board are 常營運事宜，惟保留批准若干重要事項之權
communicated to the management through Executive Directors who have attended at 利。董事會之決定透過出席董事會會議之執
Board meetings and circulation of minutes of Board meetings to the management. 行董事，及給予管理層傳閱董事會會議之會
議記錄而下達至管理層。
The Board has adopted a set of guidelines to clearly divide the responsibilities of the 董事會對須獲其批准之事宜採納一系列指
Board and the management. Matters reserved for decision and consideration of the Board 引，以明確界定董事會及管理層之職責。須
include, among others, all matters of strategic importance, corporate governance practices, 獲董事會決定及考慮之事宜其中包括所有重
legal and regulatory compliance, internal control and risk management, corporate strategy, 大策略性事宜、企業管治常規、法例及規管
operating and capital budgets, statutory financial reports, changes in Board members, 的遵守、內部監控及風險管理、企業策略、
major transactions and investment commitments and remuneration policy of Directors and 營運及資金預算、法定財務報告、董事會成
senior management, financial authorisation and approval limits for operating and capital 員變動、主要交易及投資承諾以及董事及高
expenditure, the procurement of goods and services, and the acquisition and disposal of 級管理人員之薪酬政策，營運及資本開支、
investments. 貨物與服務之採用及投資項目之收購與出售
之財務授權與批准限額。
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 獨立非執行董事
Coming from diverse business and professional backgrounds, the Independent Non- 為了提高本公司及股東之最佳利益，本公司
Executive Directors of the Company have shared their valuable experience with the Board 來自不同業務及專業背景的獨立非執行董事
in the interests of promoting the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The 均向董事會分享其寶貴經驗。本公司獨立非
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company have made significant contribution 執行董事以其專業及技能向董事委員會作出
of their skills and expertise to the Board Committees. All Independent Non-Executive 重要的貢獻。所有獨立非執行董事以三年固
Directors are appointed for a fixed term of three years and are subject to retirement by 定任期委任，並須根據本公司章程細則於本
rotation and re-election by shareholders at the AGM of the Company in accordance with 公司股東週年大會上輪值告退並由股東重選
the Company’s Bye-Laws. 連任。
All Independent Non-Executive Directors are expressly identified in all corporate 所有獨立非執行董事均在披露本公司董事姓
communications that disclose the names of the Directors of the Company. The functions 名之所有企業通訊中明確識別。獨立非執行
of Independent Non-Executive Directors include, but not limited to: 董事之職能包括，但不限於：
• participating in Board meetings to bring in independent judgment to bear on • 參加董事會會議，就公司策略、公司績
issues of corporate strategy, corporate performance, accountability, resources, key 效、問責性、資源、委任要員及操守准
appointments and standard of conducts; 則作出獨立判斷；
• taking the lead where potential conflicts of interests arise; • 在出現潛在利益衝突時引領董事會；
• serving on Board Committees, if invited; and • 應邀出任董事會屬下委員會職務（如獲
邀請）；及
• scrutinising the Group’s performance in achieving agreed corporate goals and • 詳查本集團績效是否達到既定的企業目
objectives, and monitoring the reporting of performance. 標和目的，並監察本公司匯報表情況。
Annual Report 2021 年報 29IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
During FY2021, the Company has complied with Rules 3.10(1) and 3.10(2) of the Listing 於二零二一年年度，本公司遵守上市規則
Rules regarding the appointment of at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors 第3.10(1)及3.10(2)條有關委任最少三名獨立非
including at least one Independent Non-Executive Director with appropriate professional 執行董事，其中包括最少一名獨立非執行董
qualifications or accounting or relating financial management expertise. In assessing the 事必須具有恰宜之專業資格或會計或有關財
independence of the Directors, the Board has examined the different relationships 務管理專業知識之規定。於評估董事之獨立
identified under the Listing Rules that might impair the Directors’ independence and 性時，董事會已檢查訂明於上市規則內有可
objectivity. The Board considers that all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors 能損害董事獨立性及客觀性不同的關係。董
are independent and are satisfied with the Directors’ ability to act with independent 事會認為所有獨立非執行董事皆為獨立並滿
judgment. Furthermore, each of the Independent Non-Executive Directors has provided 意彼等之能力可作出獨立之判斷。再者，每
to the Company an annual confirmation of independence required by Rule 3.13 of the 位獨立非執行董事均按上市規則第3.13條之規
Listing Rules. The Company considers all its Independent Non-Executive Directors to be 定向本公司提供年度獨立確認書。本公司視
independent. Each Director is subject to retirement by rotation at least once every three 所有獨立非執行董事皆具獨立性。每位董事
years. Any further re-appointment of an Independent Non-Executive Director, who has 皆需最少每三年輪值告退。如再委任任何已
served the Board for more than nine years, will be subject to separate resolution to be 服務董事會逾九年之獨立非執行董事，將須
approved by the shareholders of the Company. 根據本公司股東以獨立議案予以批准。
The Company has also complied with Rule 3.10A of the Listing Rules that the Independent 本公司亦遵守上市規則第3.10A條有關董事會
Non-Executive Directors are representing at least one-third of the Board. 須有至少三分之一成員為獨立非執行董事之
規定。
RELATIONSHIP 關係
There is no financial, business, family and other material relationship among other members 董事會其他成員之間概無任何財務、業務、
of the Board. 家族及其他重要關係。
There has been an effective and balanced Board collectively responsible for the Company’s 董事會維持高效率及平衡之架構，並集體負
activities and affairs. The Board members are free to discuss issues properly put to the 責本公司業務及事務。董事會成員可自由討
Board meetings and express their views and concerns. No individual or small group can 論於董事會會議上適當提出之事宜，並表達
dominate the Board’s decision-making process. 其意見及關注。概無個別人士或小組可主導
董事會之決策過程。
If a substantial shareholder or a Director has a conflict of interest in a matter to be 倘董事會認為主要股東或董事在董事會將予
considered by the Board which the Board has determined to be material, the matter will 考慮的事項中存有董事會認為屬重大的利益
be dealt with by a physical Board meeting rather than a written resolution of the Board. 衝突，該事項將以舉行一次董事會會議而非
The Board will take into account the exceptions to the general voting prohibition, as set 以董事會書面決議進行議決。董事會在考慮
out in the Listing Rules when considering whether a director shall vote on any board 該董事應否放棄於董事會上表決有關批准其
resolution approving any matters in which he has material interests or shall he be counted 擁用重大利益等事宜時或應否計入出席會議
in the quorum present at the meeting. 之法定人數內時，將會考慮上市規則所載一
般禁止表決例外情況。
30 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
MEETINGS 會議
The Board meets regularly at least four times a year and holds additional meetings as 董事會每年定期舉行最少四次會議及按情況
and when the Board thinks appropriate. Board Committees also hold regular scheduled 需要召開額外會議。董事委員會亦定期舉行
meetings to discharge their duties. Meetings via telephone or video-conference are 會議以履行其職務。本公司章程細則批准透
permitted under the Bye-Laws of the Company. Attendance record of the Board and 過電話或視像方式舉行會議。於二零二一年
Board Committees meetings during FY2021 is set out below. 年度，董事出席董事會及董事委員會會議次
數之記錄載列於下文。
All Directors have access to the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that 全體董事均可聯絡公司秘書；公司秘書負責
Board/Board Committees meeting procedures are observed and advising the Board/Board 確保遵守董事會╱董事委員會會議程序並向
Committees on compliance matters. 董事會╱董事委員會就守規事宜作出建議。
In an attempt to accommodate the competing time commitments of Directors who sit on 為確保身兼多個董事會職務之董事能抽空出
multiple boards, dates of Board/Board Committees meetings are scheduled well in advance 席會議，董事會╱董事委員會會議日期於每
at the beginning of every calendar year. The Company has given at least 14 days’ notice 年年初先行擬定。定期董事會及董事委員會
for regular Board and Board Committees meetings. For all other Board/Board Committees 會議通告最少於會議日期前十四天發出。所
meetings, reasonable notices are given. Draft agendas for Board and Board Committee 有其他董事會╱董事委員會會議均給予合理
meetings are circulated to all Directors for comment before the meetings. The Directors 之通知時間。董事會及董事委員會會議之草
were given the opportunities to include matters to be discussed in the agenda for all Board 擬議程於會議舉行前給各董事審議。董事均
and Board Committees meetings. 有機會提出將予商討事項，以供列入董事會
及董事委員會會議之議程內。
The agenda accompanied by detailed Board papers (prepared in such form and manner as 董事會議程連同隨附之文件（編製之形式及
will enable the Board to make an informed decision on matters placed before it, including 方式須能致使董事會就提呈事項作出知情決
but not limited to, background or explanatory information relating to matters to be 定，包括但不限於有關向董事會提呈之事項
brought before the Board and internal financial information such as quarterly management 背景或說明數據以及內部財務數據，例如季
accounts, forecasts and budgets with material variance between projections and actual 度管理賬目、預測及預算，並闡釋預期與實
results explained) are circulated to all Directors in a timely manner and at least three days 際業績間之重大分歧）將適時傳遞予全體董事
before the date of scheduled meeting. 傳閱，期限為擬舉行會議日期前最少三日。
Minutes of Board/Board Committees meetings are recorded in detail regarding the matters 董事會╱董事委員會會議之會議記錄均詳盡
considered and decisions reached, including concerns raised by Directors or dissenting 記錄會議所考慮之事項及達成之決定，包括
views expressed. Draft minutes are circulated to relevant Directors/committee members 董事所關注之事宜或發表之反對意見。會議
within a reasonable time after the meetings for comments and will then be approved 記錄草稿於會議後一段合理時間內傳遞予有
by the Board/Board Committees at the following meeting. Minutes of Board and Board 關董事╱委員會成員審閱並將於下一次董事
Committees meetings are kept by the company secretary and are open for inspection at 會╱董事委員會會議予以批准。該等記錄由
any reasonable time on reasonable notice by any Director. 公司秘書存置，並於任何董事發出合理通知
後於任何合理時間內供查閱。
Annual Report 2021 年報 31IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
Directors are provided in a timely manner with complete, adequate explanation and 董事適時獲提供有關本公司及其附屬公司、
information about the Company and its subsidiaries, its activities, performances and its 其業務、績效及其項目（尤其包括與一系列已
projects particularly including any significant variances from a planned course of actions to 計劃之行動有重大差異者）之完整且足夠的闡
enable them to make an informed decision or assessment of the Group’s performance, 釋及資料，以便彼等就本集團績效、狀況及
position and prospects and to discharge their duties and responsibilities. In case when 前景作出知情決定或評估，並履行彼等之職
the Directors have queries, they are provided with the names and contact details of the 務及責任。倘董事有任何疑問，彼等可獲取
Group’s senior executives for separate and independent access to them and they are able 本集團高級行政人員之姓名及聯絡資料，以
to obtain more information than is volunteered by the management. Senior executives 分別獨立聯絡有關人士，並可要求管理層提
are from time to time brought into formal and informal contact with the Board at Board 供（主動提供以外）其他額外數據。高級行政
meetings and other events. 人員不時與董事會於董事會會議及其他活動
作正式及非正式的接觸。
The Board and Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to properly 董事會及董事委員會獲得足夠之資源以妥善
discharge their duties including access to independent professional advisers under agreed 履行彼等之職責，其中包括於既定的程序
procedures, upon reasonable request, at the expense of the Company. 下，在合理要求，諮詢獨立專業顧問，有關
費用由本公司支付。
The Board held a full board meeting each quarter. 董事會每季均會舉行全體成員列席會議。
Details of the attendance of the meetings of the members of the Board during the Year 董事會成員在本年度內出席會議之記錄詳情
are as follows: 如下：
Board General
meetings meetings
Directors 董事 董事會會議 股東大會
Executive Director: 執行董事：
Zhu Yongning 朱永寧 4/4 2/2
Non-Executive Director: 非執行董事：
Cui Xiao 崔嘯 4/4 2/2
Independent Non-Executive Directors: 獨立非執行董事：
Zhou Meilin 周美林 4/4 0/2
Zhou Rui 周銳 4/4 2/2
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文 4/4 0/2
32 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
In addition to the above regular Board meetings during the Year, the members of the 除上述本年度內定期董事會會議外，董事會
Board of Directors followed the principles of good corporate governance and the best 成員遵循《上市規則》附錄十四的《企業管治守
practices of the relevant code provisions and recommendations of the CG Code as 則》關於良好企業管治的原則與有關守則條
set out in Appendix 14 of the Listing Rules and maintained a continuous dialogue with 文及建議最佳常規，與股東保持持續對話，
shareholders, especially through the AGM or other plenary meetings to communicate with 尤其是藉股東週年大會或其他全體會議與股
the shareholders. Pursuant to code provision C.1.6 of the CG Code, Independent Non- 東溝通。根據企業管治守則守則條文第C.1.6
Executive Directors and other Non-Executive Directors should attend general meeting. 條，獨立非執行董事及其他非執行董事應出
However, Mr. Zhou Melin and Mr. Xu Jinwen, the Independent Non-Executive Directors, 席股東大會。然而，獨立非執行董事周美林
were unable to attend the AGM 2021 of the Company and the special general meeting of 先生及徐錦文先生因有其他要務而未能出席
the Company held on 29 January 2021 due to their other prior engagements. 本公司二零二一年股東週年大會及本公司於
二零二一年一月二十九日舉行的股東特別大
會。
BOARD COMMITTEES 董事委員會
To maximise the effectiveness of the Board and to encourage active participation and 為提高董事會效能以及鼓勵董事會成員積極
contribution from Board members, the Board has established four Board Committees, 參與及作出貢獻，董事會已成立四個董事委
namely the executive committee (the “EC”), audit committee (the “AC”), NCGC and 員會分別為執行委員會（「執行委員會」）、審
remuneration committee (the “RC”) with specific written terms of reference that clearly 核委員會（「審核委員會」）、提名及企業管治
deal with their authority and duties, to oversee particular aspects of the Company’s affairs, 委員會及薪酬委員會（「薪酬委員會」），並列
assist in the execution of the Board’s responsibilities enable the Board Committees to 明特定職權範圍以協助各委員會執行職務。
perform their functions properly. Board Committees report to the Board on their work 該職權範圍清晰列明該等委員會之職權及職
and findings. They adopt as far as practicable, the principles, procedures and arrangements 責，以監督本公司特定方面之事務，並協助
of the Board in relation to scheduling and conduct of meetings, notice of meetings and 執行董事會之職責，使董事委員會能夠正確
inclusion of agenda items, recording and availability of minutes. The written terms of 履行彼等的職責。董事委員會向董事會報告
reference of the AC, NCGC and RC, which are in line with the CG Code, are available on 其工作及調查結果。彼等按實際可行情況採
the website of the Company and the Stock Exchange and will be reviewed from time to 納董事會有關擬定會議時間表及會議進行方
time. The quorum necessary for transaction of business of each Board Committee is two. 式、會議通告及加載議程項目、保存及提供
會議記錄等之原則、程序及安排。審核委員
會、提名及企業管治委員會及薪酬委員會包
含列明符合企業管治守則之職權範圍均載於
本公司網站及聯交所網站；並不時作出檢
討。每個董事委員會處理事務之法定人數為
兩人。
Annual Report 2021 年報 33IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
EC 執行委員會
During FY2021, the EC comprised of all Executive Directors. 於二零二一年年度，執行委員會由全體執行
董事組成。
The EC meets as and when required to oversee the day-to-day management of the Group 執行委員會於需要時舉行會議以便監察本集
and has all the general powers of the Board except those matters specifically reserved for 團日常管理事務並擁有董事會的所有一般權
the Board. 利，除需要董事會作出決定之特別事宜外。
The principal duties of EC include: 執行委員會之主要職責包括：
• managing the business and investments by overseeing the Group’s operations, • 透過監察本集團之營運、項目、資產與
projects, assets and liabilities, budgets, compliance obligations and financial 負債、預算、守規責任及財務表現，依
performance in accordance with the policies and directives of the Board; 照董事會之政策及指示以管理業務及投
資；
• making recommendations to the Board as to the Group’s overall policies, strategies • 就本集團業務發展而制定之整體政策、
and financial objectives in the development of its business and ensuring their 策略及財務目標向董事會作出建議，以
implementation and execution; and 及確保該等建議得以實施及執行；及
• providing leadership to staff and management and nominating key personnel and • 領導員工及管理層及提名要員及確保授
ensuring appropriate levels of authority are delegated to them. 予彼等適當之權力。
NCGC 提名及企業管治委員會
During FY2021, the NCGC is chaired by Mr. Zhou Rui, an Independent Non-Executive 於二零二一年年度，提名及企業管治委員會
Director, and comprised another two Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely, 由一位獨立非執行董事周銳先生擔任主席，
Mr. Xu Jinwen and Mr. Zhou Meilin. The NCGC meets at least once a year. As at 31 另包括兩位獨立非執行董事成員，即徐錦文
December 2021, all NCGC members are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 先生和周美林先生。該委員會每年最少舉行
一次會議。於二零二一年十二月三十一日，
所有提名及企業管治委員會成員均為獨立非
執行董事。
34 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
The principal functions of the NCGC include: 提名及企業管治委員會之主要職責包括：
• making recommendations to the Board on all new appointments or reappointments • 就新委任或續聘董事、制訂董事繼任計
of Directors, the establishment of a succession plan for Directors, in particular the 劃（尤其是主席及行政總裁）及董事會組
chairman and CEO and the composition of the Board; 合向董事會作出建議；
• identifying and nominating qualified individuals, subject to the approval of the Board, • 物色及提名合資格之人選（須待董事會
to be additional Directors or to fill vacancy in the Board as and when they arise; 批准）為新增董事或於董事會出現空缺
時填補人選；
• reviewing on an annual basis the Board structure, size and composition and the • 每年審閱董事會架構、規模及組成以及
independent element of the Board; 董事會之獨立元素；
• developing the criteria for selection of Directors; • 制訂挑選董事之標準；
• assessing the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors; • 評估獨立非執行董事之獨立性；
• developing and reviewing the Company’s policies and practices on corporate • 擬定及檢討本公司的企業管治政策及實
governance and make recommendations to the Board; 務守則，並向董事會作出建議；
• reviewing and monitoring the training and continuous professional development of • 檢討及監察董事及高級管理層的培訓及
Directors and senior management; 持續專業發展；
• reviewing and monitoring the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with • 檢討及監察本公司的政策及實務守則，
legal and regulatory requirements; 確保符合法律及監管規定；
• developing, reviewing and monitoring the code of conduct and compliance manual (if • 制訂、檢討及監察僱員及董事的操守準
any) applicable to employees and Directors; and 則及合規手冊（如有）；及
• reviewing the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and disclosure in the • 檢討本公司是否遵守企業管治守則及企
Corporate Governance Report. 業管治報告披露的資料。
The chairman of the NCGC will report to the Board on its proceedings and 提名及企業管治委員會之主席須於每次會議
recommendations after each meeting. 後向董事會匯報會議進程及向其作出建議。
Annual Report 2021 年報 35IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
During the Year, two meetings were held by the NCGC. Details of the attendance of the 於本年度內，提名及企業管治委員會共舉行
NCGC meeting are as follows: 兩次會議。董事出席提名及企業管治委員會
會議之記錄詳情如下：
Attendance
Directors 董事 出席次數
Zhou Rui (Chairman) 周銳（主席） 1/2
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文 1/2
Zhou Meilin 周美林 2/2
The main works performed by NCGC during the Year included reviewing the structure 提名及企業管治委員會於本年度履行之主要
and composition of the Board, assessing independence of existing Independent Non- 工作包括檢討董事會的結構和組成、評估現
Executive Directors and putting forward recommendations to the Board on re- 任獨立非執行董事的獨立性及向董事會建議
election of retiring Directors as well as reviewing the updated board diversity policy and 重選退任董事與檢討及向董事會建議批准更
recommending the same to the Board for approval. 新的董事會多元化政策。
RC 薪酬委員會
During FY2021, the RC is chaired by Mr. Xu Jinwen (an Independent Non-Executive 於二零二一年年度，薪酬委員會由徐錦文先
Director) and comprised two members, namely, Mr. Zhou Rui and Mr. Zhou Meilin. As at 生（獨立非執行董事）擔任主席，並包括兩位
31 December 2021, all RC members are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 成員，即周銳先生及周美林先生。於二零
二一年十二月三十一日，所有薪酬委員會成
員均為獨立非執行董事。
The RC consults the chairman and the CEO about its proposals relating to the 薪酬委員會就其建議其他執行董事之薪酬事
remuneration of other Executive Directors and has access to professional advice if 宜徵詢主席及行政總裁之意見，並可於有需
considered necessary. The principal functions of the RC include: 要時諮詢專業意見。其主要職能包括：
• recommending to the Board on the Company’s policies and structure for the • 就本集團董事及高級管理層薪酬之本公
remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Group; 司政策及架構向董事會作出建議；
• recommending to the Board the remuneration packages of all Executive Directors • 就所有執行董事及高級管理層之薪酬計
and senior management; and 劃向董事會作出建議；及
• reviewing and approving the management’s remuneration proposals with reference • 根據董事會的企業目的和目標檢討及批
to the Board’s corporate goals and objectives. 准管理層的薪酬建議。
The chairman of the RC will report to the Board on its proceedings and recommendations, 薪酬委員會主席須向董事會匯報會議進程及
where appropriate, for the Board’ s consideration and/or approval. （如適當）向董事會要求對其建議作出考慮
及╱或接納。
36 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
During FY2021, two meetings were held by the RC. Details of the attendance of the RC 於二零二一年年度，薪酬委員會共舉行兩次
meeting are as follows: 會議。董事出席薪酬委員會會議之記錄詳情
如下：
Attendance
Directors 董事 出席次數
Xu Jinwen (Chairman) 徐錦文（主席） 2/2
Zhou Meilin 周美林 2/2
Zhou Rui 周銳 2/2
The main works performed by RC during FY2021 included reviewing the annual 薪酬委員會於二零二一年年度履行之主要工
remuneration of Directors and senior management and recommending the remuneration 作包括檢討董事及高管年度薪酬狀況，及向
of newly appointed Directors to the Board of Directors. 董事會建議新任命董事的薪酬。
A general description of the Group’s emolument policy and long-term incentive schemes 有關本集團之薪酬政策及長期獎勵計劃以及
as well as the basis of determining the emolument payable to each Directors for FY2021 釐訂各董事於二零二一年年度應收薪酬標準
are disclosed in the sub-section of “Human Resources and Remuneration Policy” in the 的概括說明載於本年報「管理層討論及分析」
section of “Management Discussion and Analysis” of this annual report and note 10 to the 章節下「人力資源及薪酬政策」一節以及本年
consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 報綜合財務報表附註10。
AC 審核委員會
During FY2021, the AC consisted of three Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely, 於二零二一年年度，審核委員會由三位獨立
Mr. Zhou Meilin (chairman), Mr. Zhou Rui and Mr. Xu Jinwen. The Board is of the opinion 非執行董事組成，即周美林先生（主席）、周
that the majority of the members of the AC possess accounting and financial management 銳先生及徐錦文先生。董事會認為，大部份
expertise or experience required to discharge their duties. 審核委員會成員均擁有所需會計及財務管理
專業知識或經驗，以履行彼等之職務。
The major duties of AC include: 審核委員會主要職責包括：
• considering and recommending the appointment, re-appointment and removal of • 考慮及建議委任、續聘及罷免外聘核數
external auditor; 師；
• approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of external auditor, any • 批准外聘核數師之薪酬、聘用條款及該
questions of resignation or dismissal of that auditor; 核數師辭任或辭退之任何問題；
• reviewing and monitoring external auditor’s independence and objectivity and the • 根據適用標準審閱及監察外聘核數師之
effectiveness of the audit process in accordance with applicable standards; 獨立性及客觀性，以及核數程序之有效
性；
Annual Report 2021 年報 37IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
• discussing with external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and reporting • 於開始進行核數前與外聘核數師討論有
obligations before the audit commences; 關核數之性質及範疇和申報責任；
• developing and implementing policy on the engagement of an external auditor • 就聘用外聘核數師提供非審核服務制訂
to supply non-audit services and making recommendation of any measures for 及落實政策，並就需要改善之事宜提出
improvements to be taken; 建議措施；
• monitoring integrity of financial statements, annual and interim reports and reviewing • 監察財務報表、年度及中期報告的完整
significant financial reporting judgment contained in them. In this regard, the AC 性，並審閱其所載有關財務申報之重大
reviews the interim and annual financial statements and the annual and the interim 判斷。就此而言，審核委員會於遞交董
reports before submission to the Board, focusing particularly on: 事會前先行審閱中期及年度財務報表與
年度及中期報告時，尤其集中於以下各
項：
(i) any changes in accounting policies and practices; (i) 任何會計政策及慣例變動；
(ii) major judgmental areas; (ii) 涉及重要判斷的地方；
(iii) significant adjustments resulting from audit; (iii) 因核數所產生之重大調整；
(iv) the going concern assumptions and any qualifications; (iv) 企業持續經營假設及任何保留意
見；
(v) compliance with accounting standards; (v) 是否遵守會計準則；
(vi) compliance with the Listing Rules and other legal requirements in relation to (vi) 是否遵照上市規則及其他有關財
financial reporting; and 務申報之法例規定；及
(vii) any matters that have been raised by the Company’s staff responsible for the (vii) 由本公司負責會計及財務申報工
accounting and financial reporting function or auditors; 作之員工或核數師所提出之任何
事宜；
38 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
• reviewing the Group’s financial controls, internal control and risk management • 檢討本集團之財務監控、內部監控及風
systems; 險管理制度；
• discussing with the management the system of internal control and ensuring that • 與管理層討論內部監控系統，並確保管
the management has discharged its duty to have an effective internal control 理層履行其職責，以維持有效之內部監
system including the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff 控制度，包括提供足夠資源、聘請具備
of the Company’s accounting and financial reporting function, and their training 足夠資歷之員工負責本公司之會計及財
programmes and budget; 申報工作以及確保有足夠預算用作該等
員工之培訓計劃；
• considering major investigations of findings on internal control matters as delegated • 應董事會的委派或主動就有關內部監控
by the Board or on its own initiative and management’s response to these findings; 事宜的重要調查結果及管理層對調查結
果的回應進行重大研究；
• reviewing the internal audit programme, ensuring co-ordination between the internal • 檢討內部審核規劃，確保內部審計部及
and external auditors, and ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately 外聘核數師通力合作，並確保內部審計
resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company and reviewing and 功能有足夠資源運作，且於本公司內有
monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function; 適當的地位，以及檢討及監控內部審計
職能之有效性；
• reviewing the external auditor’s management letter, any material queries raised by • 檢討外聘核數師呈交予管理層的函件，
the auditor to management in respect of the accounting records, financial accounts 以及核數師就會計記錄、財務賬目或監
or systems of control and management’s response and ensuring that the Board will 控系統向管理層提出任何重大疑問及管
provide a timely response to the issues raised; 理層之回應，以確保董事會對提出之事
宜及時作出回應；
• reviewing the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices; • 檢討本集團之財務及會計政策與慣例；
• reviewing the arrangements the Group’s employees can use, in confidence, to raise • 檢討為本集團僱員所設的保密安排，讓
concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, internal control or other 他們表達關乎財務匯報、內部管控或其
matters. The AC should ensure that proper arrangements are in place for fair and 他事宜之可能不當行為的關注疑慮。審
independent investigation of these matters and for appropriate follow-up action; and 核委員會應確保設有妥當安排公平獨立
調查上述事宜，以及採取適當的跟進行
動；及
• reporting to the Board on matters set out above and to consider other topics, as • 就上述各項所載的事宜向董事會匯報，
defined by the Board. 及研究其他由董事會界定的課題。
Annual Report 2021 年報 39IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
The AC has explicit authority to investigate any matter under the scope of its duties 審核委員會具有明確權力，按其職責範圍調
and the authority to obtain independent professional advice. It is given full access to and 查任何事宜及有權獲取獨立專業意見，並獲
cooperation of the management. It has been provided with reasonable resources to 管理層提供全面的支持及通力合作。審核
discharge its duties properly. In the course of reviewing the Group’s financial information, 委員會獲提供合理的資源，以妥為履行其職
the AC members liaise closely with the Board and the chief financial officer to gather 務。在審閱本集團之財務資料的過程中，審
relevant information. 核委員會與董事會及財務總監緊密聯繫以取
得有關資料。
During FY2021, two meetings were held by the AC. Details of the attendance of the AC 審核委員會於二零二一年年度舉行兩次會
meetings are as follows: 議。審核委員會會議之出席記錄詳情如下：
Attendance
Directors 董事 出席次數
Zhou Meilin (Chairman) 周美林（主席） 2/2
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文 2/2
Zhou Rui 周銳 2/2
The major works performed by the AC during FY2021 included the review and 於二零二一年年度，審核委員會履行之主要
consideration of the announcements relating to the Group’s interim and annual results; 工作包括審閱及考慮有關本集團中期及全年
interim and annual reports; significant accounting and audit issues arising from annual 業績之公佈；中期及年度報告；年度審核
audit of the Group’s financial statements; budget; periodic reports from internal audit 本集團財務報表所產生之重大會計及審核事
department; internal audit plan; external auditor’s audit and non-audit fees as well as the 宜；預算案；內部審計部之定期報告；內部
assessment and recommendation of re-appointment of auditor for the coming year. 審核計劃；外聘核數師之審核及非審核費用
以及評估及建議續聘來年公司核數師。
Full minutes of the AC are kept at the Board office. Draft and finalised minutes of the 審核委員會之詳盡會議記錄存置於董事會辦
AC meetings are circulated to all members of the AC for their comment and records 公室，審核委員會會議記錄之草稿及最終
respectively, in both cases within reasonable time after the conclusion of the meetings. 稿，於會議結束後一段合理時間內傳遞予全
體審核委員會成員，以供彼等提出意見及存
檔。
40 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
Securities Transactions by Directors and Officers 董事及高級職員進行證券交易
The Company has adopted a code of conduct by Directors and officers of the Group 本公司已採納本集團董事及高級職員的行為
on terms no less favourable than the standards set out by the Model Code for Securities 守則，其條款並不較上市規則附錄十所載上
Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 市發行人董事進行證券交易的標準守則（「標
to the Listing Rules. 準守則」）之條款寬鬆。
Having made specific enquiries to all Directors, save as disclosed above, all Directors 向全體董事作出特定查詢後，除上文所披露
confirmed that they had complied with the required standards set out in the Model Code 者外，全體董事確認彼等已於整個二零二一
throughout FY2021. 年年度遵守標準守則所載之標準。
The Board members have been reminded of their obligation to comply with the Model 董事會成員獲提醒其有義務遵守標準守則。
Code.
Directors as well as officers of the Company who are in possession of unpublished inside 被視為知悉有關本公司或其股份未經公佈內
information in relation to the Company or its shares are prohibited from dealing in shares 幕消息數據之本公司董事及高級職員禁止買
of the Company and are also prohibited from dealing in shares during the black-out period. 賣本公司股份，亦禁止於禁售期間買賣股份。
INSURANCE 保險
Pursuant to code provision C.1.8 of the CG Code, the Company should arrange 根據企業管治守則守則條文第C.1.8條，本公
appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors. 司應就董事可能會面對的法律行動作適當的
投保安排。
During FY2021, no such insurance cover has been arranged for the Directors due to the 於二零二一年年度，由於保險公司拒絕在本
insurance company refusing to provide service within the Company’s budget. 公司預算範圍內提供服務，故概無為董事安
排此類保險。
Annual Report 2021 年報 41IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT 問責及審核
Financial reporting 財務匯報
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the financial statements which 董事知悉其責任乃編製反映本公司及本集團
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and results of the Company and of the 真實公平事務狀況及業績之財務報表。彼等
Group. Their responsibilities have also been stated in the section headed “Independent 之責任亦於本年報之「獨立核數師報告」一
Auditor’s Report” contained in this annual report. In preparing the financial statements 節內提及。於編製二零二一年年度之財務報
for FY2021, the Directors have selected suitable accounting policies and applied them 表時，董事已挑選適合之會計政策及貫徹應
consistently and made accounting judgments and estimates that are prudent and reasonable 用，並作出審慎合理之判斷及估計。在財務
in the circumstances. With the assistance of the finance department, the Directors ensure 部協助下，董事確保本集團之財務報表乃根
that the financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with statutory 據法例規定及適當財務報告準則而編製。
requirements and appropriate financial reporting standards.
Management recognises the importance of providing the Board with appropriate and 管理層認同在準確與及時的基準上向董事會
relevant information on an accurate and timely basis. Quarterly business review and 提供適當及相關之數據的重要性。董事會獲
financial reports comparing the Group’s actual performance with budget and highlighting 提供季度業務回顧及財務報告（載有本集團
major relevant issues are provided to the Board to enable it to make an informed assessment 實際表現與預算案之比較及主要相關事項擇
on the Group’s performance, position and prospects. Under the CG Code, monthly 要），使其對本集團之績效、情況及前景能作
updates are required to be provided to all Directors. 出知情評估。根據企業管治守則，每月需向
所有董事提供更新數據。
The Board endeavours to ensure a balanced, clear and understandable assessment 董事會致力確保對本集團之狀況及前景作出
of the Group’s position and prospects to extend to the Group’s financial reporting 客觀、明確及可理解之評估，並將範圍擴大
including annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive announcements and other 至本集團之年度及中期報告財務申報、其他
financial disclosures required under the Listing Rules, and reports to regulators as well as 涉及股價敏感資料的公佈、其他根據上市規
information required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements. 則須予披露之財務資料、致監管機構之報告
書以及法定須予披露之其他數據。
The Company publishes its interim and annual financial results and reports in accordance 本公司遵照上市規則之規定刊發中期及全年
with the requirements under the Listing Rules. 財務業績及報告。
42 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
External Auditor and Auditor’s Remuneration 外聘核數師及核數師酬金
The external auditor of the Company is Mazars CPA Limited (“Mazars”). The AC is 本公司之外聘核數師為中審眾環（香港）會計
responsible for considering the selection, appointment, resignation or dismissal of external 師事務所有限公司（「中審眾環」）。審核委員
auditors. The Board has no disagreement with the AC’s view on the re-appointment of 會負責考慮甄選、委任、離任及罷免外聘核
external auditor. 數師等事宜。董事會於續聘外聘核數師一事
並無與審核委員會持不同意見。
The statement of Mazars, the independent auditor of the Company, regarding their 本公司獨立核數師中審眾環對其就本集團二
reporting responsibility on the financial statements of the Group for FY2021 is set out 零二一年年度財務報表承擔之報告責任所作
in the section headed “Independent Auditor’s Report” contained in this annual report. 聲明載於本年報之「獨立核數師報告」一節
Representatives from Mazars met up with the AC in meetings to answer questions. 內。中審眾環之代表與審核委員會成員會面
以回答問題。
For FY2021, fees paid or payable to the auditor of the Company, Mazars, by the Group are 於二零二一年年度，本集團已付或應付本公
as follows: 司核數師中審眾環之費用如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
– Audit services －審核服務 1.2 1.2
– Non-audit services －非審核服務 0.2 0.1
1.4 1.3
Annual Report 2021 年報 43IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
Risk Management and Internal Controls 風險管理及內部監控
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound and effective risk management and 董事會負責維護本集團健全及有效的風險管
internal control systems of the Group, and for reviewing their design, operational adequacy 理及內部監控制度，並審查有關設計、操作
and effectiveness. 的充分性和有效性。
The Group’s risk management and internal control systems encompass their policies, 本集團之風險管理及內部監控制度包含其政
processes, tasks, and other aspects of the Group that taken together: 策、程序、工作，連同本集團其他範疇，旨
在：
• facilitate their effective and efficient operation by allowing it to respond appropriately • 容許其適當地於重大業務、營運、財
to significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks with a 務、合規及其他風險等方面作出意見，
view to achieving business objectives. This includes the safeguarding of assets from 促進營運之效率及成效以達到業務目
inappropriate use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified 標。此包括保障資產免受不適當的使用
and managed; 或損失及詐騙，並且保證責任得以確定
及處理；
• help ensure maintenance of proper accounting records for the provision of reliable • 確保保存妥當的會計記錄以提供可靠之
financial information for internal or external reporting; and 財務數據供內部使用或對外匯報；及
• help ensure compliance with relevant legislation and regulations, and also with • 確保遵守相關法例及規定，以及有關工
internal policies with respect to the conduct of business. 作方式遵守內部政策。
The risk management and internal control systems are designed to provide reasonable, 風險管理及內部監控制度乃為合理但非絕對
but not absolute, assurance of no material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than 地確保防範重大錯誤陳述或損失，以及旨在
eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the Group’s objectives. 管理而非消除營運制度失當之風險，以達致
本集團之目標。
44 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
The key procedures that the Board established to provide effective risk management and 董事會為提供有效風險管理及內部監控而制
internal controls are as follows: 訂之主要程序如下：
• A distinct organisation structure exists with defined lines of authority and • 訂定一個權力範圍與責任界定清楚的企
responsibilities. Division/department heads are involved in preparing the strategic 業架構。分部╱部門主管參與準備策略
plan which lays down the corporate strategies to be pursued in the coming year for 性計劃，當中列出來年須跟隨之企業策
achieving the annual operating plan and the annual operational and financial targets. 略以達成年度營運計劃及年度營運與財
Both the strategic plan and the annual operating plan lay down the foundation for 務目標。策略性計劃及年度營運計劃均
the preparation of the annual budget by which resources are allocated in accordance 為準備年度預算案之基礎，其按既定及
with identified and prioritised business opportunities. The annual operating plan is 優先的商業契機分配資源。該年度營運
submitted for approval by the EC subject to regular review. The strategic plan is 計劃已經由執行委員會提交供批准並須
presented to the Board by management subject to regular review and the annual 定期進行檢討。策略性計劃已經由管理
budget is approved by the Board yearly; 層向董事會匯報並須定期進行檢討；而
年度預算案則由董事會每年批准；
• A comprehensive monthly management reporting system is in place providing • 訂立每月詳細的管理匯報制度，以向管
financial and operational performance indicators to the management, and the 理層提供財務及營運表現指標，並提供
relevant financial information for reporting and disclosure purposes. Variances against 財務資料，供有關匯報及披露用途。對
budgets are analysed, and explained, and appropriate actions are taken, if necessary, 預算差異作出分析及闡釋，並於有需要
to rectify deficiencies noted; and 時採取適當之行動以彌補所知之不足；
及
• System and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks • 訂立制度及程序以識別、衡量、管理及
including legal, credit, market, operational, environmental, behavioral and system 監控可能影響本集團之法律、信貸、市
risks that may have an impact on the Group. 場、營運、環境、行為及制度等風險。
The Group’s internal audit department (“IA”) performs audit reviews of the risks and 本集團內部審計部（「內部審計部」）就本集團
key controls of the Group. IA plays an important role in monitoring the Group’s internal 之風險及主要監控進行審核檢討。內部審計
governance, evaluating the quality of the risk management and internal control systems 部於監察本集團內部管治上、評估風險管理
and informing the Board whether sound risk management and internal control systems are 及內部監控制度質素及向董事會匯報管理層
maintained and operated by the management in compliance with agreed processes and 是否已遵照協定之程序及標準維持及實施妥
standards. To preserve the independence of the internal audit function, the head of IA 善之風險管理及內部監控制度上擔當重要角
reports directly to the AC on audit matters and to the CEO on administrative matters. 色。為保留內部審計功能之獨立性，內部審
計部主管直接向審核委員會匯報有關審核事
宜及向行政總裁匯報行政事宜。
Annual Report 2021 年報 45IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
Using a risk management-based approach audit, IA plans its internal audit projects annually 內部審計部採用風險管理為本之審核方法，
in consultation with, but independent of, management. The audit methodology and 規劃其年度內部審核規劃（會諮詢但獨立於管
process adopted by IA include understanding and analysing the business, determining risk 理層）。內部審計部所採納之審核方法及程序
areas within key processes; analysing and evaluating the process control effectiveness and 包括理解及分析業務、在主要程序上決定風
communicating results and follow up. Independent reviews of different financial, business 險範圍、分析及評估程序監控之有效性及傳
and functional operations and activities will be conducted with audit resources being 達結果與跟進。不同之財政、業務、功能運
focused on higher risk areas. Ad-hoc reviews will also be conducted on areas of concern 作及活動之獨立檢討將配合審核資源進行，
identified by the AC and the management. 並集中於高風險之範圍。倘審核委員會及管
理層識別出值得關注之事宜，亦會以專責方
式進行檢討。
The Company has established written policies and procedures on daily operations, covering 本公司已為日常經營、流程、採用方法、評
process flow, methodology adopted, reviewing process and reporting system. Division/ 核流程及匯報制度製定列明的政策及程序。
department heads will be notified of the control deficiencies noted for rectification, and 分部╱部門主管將獲通知監控不足之處以進
IA will follow up with the implementation of audit recommendations. Significant internal 行修正，而內部審計部將跟進落實審核建議
control weaknesses are brought to the attention of the AC and if necessary to the Board, 之事宜。重要之內部監控不足將提呈審核委
and to the senior management for remedial actions. 員會請予注意（及如有需要提呈予董事會），
及高級管理層以作出補救行動。
During the Year, the Board, through the AC, has conducted reviews on a regular basis, of 於本年度內，董事會已通過審核委員會定期
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems covering 對本集團風險管理及內部監控制度的有效性
all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk （涵蓋所有重大監控、包括財務、營運及合規
management functions and gave due deliberation/consideration to the adequacy of 監控，以及風險管理程序）進行檢討，並對資
resources, staff qualifications and experience of the accounting and financial reporting 源、員工在會計及財務匯報的合適性及經驗
function. 作謹慎考慮。
Furthermore, the whistleblowing policy has been adopted by the Board for the Group’s 再者，董事會採納了舉報政策以讓本集團之
employees, customers and suppliers to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible 僱員、顧客及供貨商對本集團任何可能處理
improprieties in any matters related to the Group. 不當之事宜提出保密舉報。
46 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS’ 與股東之溝通及股東權益
RIGHT
Shareholders Communication 股東溝通
The Company strives to convey to shareholders pertinent information in a clear, detailed, 本公司致力向股東傳達明確、詳盡、適時及
timely manner and on a regular basis and to take into consideration their views and inputs, 定期之相關數據，並考慮彼等之意見及建議
and address shareholders’ concerns. Their views are communicated to the Board as a 以及處理股東關注之事宜。彼等之意見會整
whole. 體向董事會傳達。
The Company communicates with its shareholders through the publication of annual and 本公司透過刊發年報、中期報告、業績公
interim reports, results announcements, other announcements and documents required 佈、根據上市規則須刊發的公佈及文件，及
to be published pursuant to the Listing Rules, and press releases. All shareholders’ 新聞稿與股東溝通。所有與股東之通訊亦載
communications are also available on the Stock Exchange’s website at www.hkex.com.hk 於聯交所網站www.hkex.com.hk或本公司網站
or the Company’s website at www.idthk.com. www.idthk.com。
The AGM of the Company provides a useful forum for shareholders to exchange views 本公司股東週年大會為股東與董事會交換意
with the Board. The chairman of the Board as well as chairmen of AC, NCGC and/or RC, 見之有用論壇。董事會主席以及審核委員
or in their absence, members of the Board Committees are generally available to answer 會、提名及企業管治委員會及╱或薪酬委員
shareholders’ questions. 會之主席（如彼等缺席，則董事委員會成員）
通常會出席回答股東之問題。
Separate resolutions are proposed at general meetings on each substantially separate issue, 每一個實質上獨立之個別事項（包括推選個別
including the election of individual directors. Votes cast on each resolution at the general 董事）均以獨立決議案提呈於股東大會上。股
meetings are properly counted and recorded. 東大會上對每項決議案的票數均獲妥為點算
及記錄在案。
At each general meeting, the shareholders will be informed of the detailed procedures 在每一個股東大會上，股東將獲通知有關投
for conducting a poll and answers will be provided if there are any questions from the 票表決之詳細程序。股東如有任何提問亦將
shareholders. The poll results are posted on the Stock Exchange’s website and the 獲得解答。投票結果會於聯交所網站及本公
Company’s website. 司網站公佈。
Annual Report 2021 年報 47IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
PROCEDURES FOR SHAREHOLDERS TO CONVENE A SPECIAL GENERAL 股東召開股東特別大會（「股東特別大會」）
MEETING (“SGM”) 之程序
The Directors of the Company, notwithstanding anything in its Bye-Laws shall, on the 即使本公司章程細則另有任何規定，本公司
requisition of shareholders of the Company holding at the date of the deposit of the 董事須於收到本公司股東（該等股東於送達要
requisition not less than one-tenth of such of the paid-up capital of the Company as at 求日期當日持有本公司截至該日附帶本公司
the date of the deposit carries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company, 股東大會投票權的實繳股本不少於十分之一）
forthwith proceed duly to convene a SGM of the Company. 要求時，立即著手正式召開本公司之股東特
別大會。
The requisition must state the purposes of the meeting, and must be signed by the 該要求須述明有關會議之目的，並須由要求
requisitionists and addressed to the company secretary and deposited at the Company’s 人簽署及送達本公司之香港主要營業地點交
principal place of business in Hong Kong. 予公司秘書。
The request will be verified with the Company’s share registrars and upon their 本公司會向本公司之股份過戶登記處核實該
confirmation that the request is proper and in order, the company secretary will ask the 要求，於獲得股份過戶登記處確認為正式及
Board to include the resolution in the agenda for the SGM. 妥為提交之要求後，公司秘書將要求董事會
在股東特別大會的議程內加入有關決議案。
If the Directors do not within twenty-one days from the date of the deposit of the 倘董事於上述要求之送達日期二十一日內並
requisition proceed duly to convene a meeting, the requisitionists, or any of them 無正式召開會議，要求人（或代表要求人總投
representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves 票權超過一半以上之任何要求人）可自行召開
convene a meeting, but any meeting so convened shall not be held after the expiration of 會議，惟所召開之任何會議不得於上述日期
three months from the said date. 起計三個月屆滿後舉行。
Procedures for shareholders to put forward proposals at general meetings 股東於股東大會作出提案之程序
Shareholders who want to put forward proposals at an AGM or SGM should submit a 股東若要在股東週年大會或股東特別大會上
written notice of those proposals with their detailed contact information to the company 提出提案，須書面提交該等提案，並連同詳
secretary at the Company’s principal place of business in Hong Kong. The request will be 細聯絡資料，送達本公司之香港主要營業地
verified with the Company’s share registrars and upon their confirmation that the request is 點交予公司秘書。本公司會向本公司之股份
proper and in order, the company secretary will ask the Board to include the resolution in 過戶登記處核實該要求，於獲得股份過戶登
the agenda for the general meeting. 記處確認為正式及妥為提交之要求後，公司
秘書將要求董事會在股東大會的議程內加入
有關決議案。
48 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Corporate Governance Report
企業管治報告書
Procedures for Shareholders to Send Enquiries to the Board 股東向董事會查詢之程序
Shareholders’ enquiries must be in writing setting out their contact information and 股東提出的查詢須以書面方式連同查詢人之
addressed to the company secretary and deposited at the Company’s principal place of 聯絡資料送達本公司之香港主要營業地點交
business in Hong Kong at Block C, 9th Floor, Phase 1, Kaiser Estate, 41 Man Yue Street, 予公司秘書，地址為香港九龍紅磡民裕街41
Hunghom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 號凱旋工商中心1期9樓C座。
COMPANY SECRETARY 公司秘書
The company secretary reports to the Board and is responsible for assisting the Board 公司秘書向董事會呈報並負責協助董事會遵
to follow the Board procedures and policies. Mr. Chen Kun, the Company Secretary of 循董事會程序及政策。於二零二一年年度，
the Company during FY2021, had attended relevant professional seminars to update his 本公司公司秘書陳坤先生已出席多個相關的
knowledge and skills. He had complied with the Listing Rules and taken no less than 15 專業講座，以更新其知識及技能。彼已遵守
hours of relevant professional training. 上市規則之規定及接受不少於15小時的相關
專業培訓。
INVESTOR RELATIONS 投資者關係
The Board recognises that effective communication to investors is the key to establishing 董事會深知與投資者之有效溝通，乃建立投
investor confidence and attracting new investors. 資者信心及吸引新投資者之關鍵。
Measures taken by the Group include: 本集團所實行之有關舉措包括：
• Annual and interim reports are prepared and issued to all shareholders within the • 本集團於聯交所規定期間內編製年度及
prescribed period stipulated by the Stock Exchange. All results announcements and 中期報告，並刊發予全體股東。所有業
reports are posted on the Stock Exchange’s website and the Company’s website. 績公佈及報告均載於聯交所網站及本公
司網站。
• The Group regularly releases corporate information such as awards received, • 本集團定期於本公司網站公佈公司資
product launches and the latest news of the Group’s developments on the 料，例如其所獲得獎項、產品推出情況
Company’s website. The public are welcome to give their comments and make their 及本集團發展之最新消息等。本集團歡
enquiries through the Company’s website and the management will provide their 迎公眾人士透過本公司網站提出意見及
prompt response. 查詢，管理層將會迅速跟進。
• The constitutional documents of the Company can be found on the websites of • 本公司之憲章文件可於本公司及聯交所
the Company and the Stock Exchange and there is no change in the Company’s 網站查閱。於回顧期內，憲章文件並無
constitutional documents during the period under review. 任何變動。
Annual Report 2021 年報 49健 康 及 保 健
Health & Wellness
你的健康之道
The Path to a Healthier YouIDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
The Group complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Stock Exchange. 本集團遵守聯交所上市規則之要求，於本年
During the Year, it was committed to raising the environmental, social and governance of 度內，致力於將本集團的環境、社會及管
the Group to a higher level, and hereby presents its Environmental, Social and Governance 治提升至更高水平，並按照上市規則附錄
Report for the Year prepared in accordance with the Environmental, Social and 二十七《環境、社會及管治報告指引》刊發本
Governance Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 of the Listing Rules. 集團於本年度之環境、社會及管治報告。
1. SCOPE 1. 範圍
This report is focused on reporting the performance of the Group in promoting 本報告重點匯報本集團於二零二一年一
corporate social responsibility during the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 月一日至二零二一年十二月三十一日期
December 2021, mainly including the disclosure of the policies and practices which 間在推行企業社會責任方面之表現，主
are of material concern to key social institutions and individuals, including investors, 要囊括與主要社會機構及個體，包括投
employees, customers, government, suppliers and contractors, communities and 資者、僱員、客戶、政府、供應商及承
the public (the “stakeholders”) as well as the key performance indicators, covering 包商、社區及公眾（「權益人」）重要相關
the two business segments owned by the Group, and the daily operations of the 的政策常規及關鍵績效指標披露，其中
Group’s Hong Kong office and Shenzhen factory. 涵蓋本集團所擁有的兩個業務分部，與
本集團旗下香港辦公室及深圳工廠之日
常營運。
52 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
2. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS 2. 權益人的參與
The Group has established various channels to allow stakeholders to participate 本集團為權益人開放多種管道參與到本
in the Company’s operations, and to understand and monitor the Company’s 公司運營中，了解和監督本公司的運營
operating conditions, so as to promote the formation of a community of harmony 狀況，意在營造一個和諧共榮的利益共
and common interest between the Group and stakeholders and realise maximum 同體，促進本集團與權益人的和諧共
comprehensive social interest, which includes optimal corporate revenue. 榮，實現包括企業收益最大化在內的社
Stakeholders can participate in the Company’s operations through the following 會綜合效益最大化。權益人可從以下途
channels: 徑參與本公司的運營：
Channels and means of
Stakeholders Key targets and interests communication and participation Company measures
權益人 主要目標及關注點 溝通參與方式和管道 公司措施
Shareholders and Robust operations, revenue and General meetings, investors’ Publication of notifications and resolutions of
investors returns, protection of shareholders’ conferences and site visits, disclosure the shareholders’ meetings and disclosure of
interest, true, accurate and timely of information (including financial information of the Company in accordance
disclosure of information. statements) and contact information with rules; organisation of various investor
of the Company. activities to enhance investor recognition;
publication of the Company’s contact
information on the Company’s website and
reports, and ensuring communication channels
remain smooth.
股東及投資者 穩健運營，收益回報，股東權 股東大會，投資者諮詢和考察， 按規定發佈股東大會通知和議案，披露公
益保護，信息披露真實、準 信息披露（含財務報表）及公司聯 司信息。開展多種形式的投資者活動，提
確、及時。 繫方式。 高投資者的認可度。在網站和報告中公開
公司聯繫方式，並確保各種溝通管道暢通。
Annual Report 2021 年報 53IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Channels and means of
Stakeholders Key targets and interests communication and participation Company measures
權益人 主要目標及關注點 溝通參與方式和管道 公司措施
Employees Protection of basic rights, Workers union, communication Establishment of workers union to provide
welfare and remuneration, work channels between employees and workers with a platform to communicate;
environment, development management, feedback boxes, staff payment of salaries and benefits in full and on
opportunities, occupational health activities, training and education. time; payment of social security insurance in
and safety, realisation of self-worth. accordance with law; provision of a healthy
and safe working environment; establishment
of a fair promotion mechanism; caring about
our employees, organising employee activities,
trainings and learning activities.
員工 基本權益保障，福利薪酬待 工會，員工與管理層溝通管道， 成立工會組織，提供員工交流平台；及時
遇，工作環境，發展空間，職 意見箱，員工活動，培訓與學 足額發放薪酬福利，依法繳納社會保險；
業健康與安全，自我價值實現。 習。 提供健康、安全的工作環境；建立公平的
晉升機制；關愛員工，說明困難職工，組
織員工活動，培訓與學習。
Customers Guarantee product quality and Regular visits and communication. A central email system, Red-Mine, has been
delivery, long-term stable co- Strengthening of quality control, implemented throughout the Group, to
operation. assurance of steady production and improve email communication and follow-
smooth logistic process; provision up efficiency, and a technical study into
of adequate products; entering into an automatic reply smart service for our
long term sales agreements with customer email mailbox is in progress.
customers.
客戶 產品質量和供貨保證，長期穩 定期拜訪，保持日常溝通。加強 集團各地已統一使用中央電郵系統
定合作。 質量管理，保證生產穩定和運輸 Red-Mine以提升電郵溝通及跟進效率，並
通暢，提供足量產品，與客戶簽 正進行在顧客電郵信箱加入自動回復之智
訂長期銷售協議。 慧服務方面的技術研究。
54 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Channels and means of
Stakeholders Key targets and interests communication and participation Company measures
權益人 主要目標及關注點 溝通參與方式和管道 公司措施
Government Lawful operations, payment of Site visits, inspections, work Conduction of operation in accordance with
tax in accordance with the law, conference and discussion, work the law; compliance management, payment of
production safety, fulfillment of reports, submissions and approvals. tax in accordance with the law; strengthening
social responsibility. of the Company’s safety management;
acceptance of government supervision,
inspection and examination in accordance
with regulations, active assumption of social
responsibilities.
政府 合法經營，依法納稅，安全生 現場視察、檢查，工作會議研 合法經營，合規管理、依法納稅，加強公
產，履行社會責任。 討，工作報告、報送、審批。 司安全管理；按規定接受政府監督、檢查
及現場考察，積極承擔社會責任。
Suppliers and Fair bidding, long-term stable Public bidding meetings and business Fair bidding, selection by merit, performance
contractors cooperation and timely payment. meetings, regular communications. of contractual obligations, strengthening of
regular communications, maintenance of
longterm cooperation with quality suppliers
and contractors.
供貨商、承包商 公平招標，長期穩定合作，按 招投標會議，洽談會，日常溝 公平招標，擇優選擇，按約履行合同，加
時付款。 通。 強日常交流，與優質供貨商和承包商保持
長期合作。
Community and Job opportunities, community Co-hosting of community activities, Promotion of community building and
the public development, ecological charity, volunteer service and development, provision of volunteer service,
environment, compensation and co-construction of the community. establishment of communication channels for
assistance. the community and the community members;
hosting of community activities, promotion of
the building of harmonious community.
社區與公眾 就業機會，社區發展，生態環 共辦社區活動，慈善援助，志願 促進社區建設和發展，提供志願者服務，
境，補償與援助。 者服務，社區共建活動。 開放與社區和社區成員的溝通管道；共辦
社區活動，促進建設和諧社區。
Annual Report 2021 年報 55IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE 3. 環境、社會及管治表現
3.1 Environment 3.1 環境
3.1.1 Emissions 3.1.1 排放物
Responding actively to the global trend of emission reduction, the Group 集團積極響應全球關注的減排趨
is committed to minimising release of greenhouse gases, wastewater, solid 勢，在日常營運中致力避免產生
wastes and other pollutants in its daily operations. Therefore, a series of 溫室氣體、廢水、固體廢物等污
environmental policies have been developed to strengthen the control of 染物，故制定了一系列的環保政
emissions, including: 策加強排放物控制，其中包括：
Waste reduction 減少廢棄物
Most of the electronic waste generated in the manufacturing process, 集團在製造業務上產生的電子廢
including the scrapped circuit boards, scrapped parts and malfunctioned 品，包括報廢的電路板，零部
components, are returned or handled directly by recycling companies. At the 件，壞掉的部件，大部分都會安
same time, the Group continues to seek improvements in the manufacturing 排退貨或者直接由回收商回收，
process and technology in order to increase productivity and reduce 同時不斷尋求完善製造過程及技
generation of scrapped electronic products and parts during the production 術，以提高生產效益，減少在生
process. 產過程中報廢的電子產品及部件。
To reduce the generation of waste from factory logistics, the application of 為了減少在工廠物流中所產生的
reusable boxes has been increased, reducing waste generated from the use 廢棄物，增加周轉箱的應用，減
of easily damaged logistics equipment made of paper or plastic. 少因採用紙質或塑料等容易損毀
的搬運工具而產生的廢棄物。
The Group conducts waste categorisation for proper disposal. Recyclables are 集團會對不同的廢棄物分類作合
identified and sorting bins are placed while waste sorting training programmes 適的處理，確認可回收的廢物，
are conducted to encourage employees to actively participate in waste 並設立分類垃圾桶，舉辦垃圾分
recycling. 類培訓活動以鼓勵員工積極參與
回收廢棄物。
Electronic products involve application of batteries. The Group understands 電子產品涉及不少電池的應用，
the far-reaching impact of batteries on the environment and therefore has 集團了解電池對環境的深遠影
designated old battery collection locations to promote appropriate handling 響，因此設立廢舊電池回收處，
and recycling of disposed batteries. 且倡導廢舊電池回收處理。
56 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Other than used batteries, the Group is also concerned with waste 除了廢電池，集團亦關注紙箱的
cardboard. Therefore, recycling bins have been set up and recycling 廢棄，故增設回收箱收集廢紙，
companies have been engaged to handle waste papers. 並安排回收商前來處理。
The Group regularly evaluates the production process to find out the sources 集團定期評估生產流程，找出有
of hazardous wastes, and defines action plans to reduce these wastes. The 害廢棄物產生的源頭，制定減少
Group also put labels to differentiate hazardous and non-hazardous wastes 有害廢棄物的行動計劃；並且將
to facilitate hazardous wastes being handled properly by the qualified service 有害廢棄物及無害廢棄物作不同
providers. 標識，以便安排有害廢棄物交由
合資格的服務商適當地處置。
Currently, the hazardous wastes produced by the Group include used 目前集團業務所產生的有害廢棄
batteries, sewage sludge, oil rags and contaminated gloves; whereas non- 物包括廢電池、廢水處理後的污
hazardous wastes mainly include disposed capsules and carton wastes. 泥、油抹布、用後受污染的手套
等，而一般的無害廢棄物主要為
廢膠囊、廢棄包裝箱等。
The Group has demonstrated the following results in the reporting period 透過落實以上政策及措施，集團
through the implementation of the aforesaid policies and measures for waste 於報告期間在廢物排放的表現如
reduction: 下：
Total annual weight Intensity per production unit
(tons) (gram/piece)
全年總量 每生產單位的排放密度
Types of wastes 廢棄物種類 （噸） （克╱件）
2021 2020 2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年
Hazardous waste 有害廢棄物 0.5 1.7 5.8 8.80
Non-hazardous waste 無害廢棄物 3.8 6.7 44.1 34.69
Reduction of wastewater discharge 減少廢水排放
The Group’s factory in Shenzhen discharges both industrial and domestic 集團在深圳的工廠業務會產生工
wastewater. The factory has installed sewage treatment facilities to reduce 業廢水及生活廢水，工廠已建設
the pollutants in the wastewater, and has additional facility for re-use of the 污水處理設備以減少廢水內的污
treated wastewater. This approach not only reduces wastewater discharge 染物，還增加設備把經處理後的
but also helps the Group to use less fresh water. 廢水再循環使用，在減少廢水排
放的同時為集團節省用水量。
Annual Report 2021 年報 57IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 減少溫室氣體排放
The Group seeks to adopt renewable or other clean energy in replacement 集團尋求採用可再生或其他潔淨
of coal combustion facilities in order to reduce the generation and emission 能源，代替燃煤設備，減少硫化
of sulphur and nitrogen oxides. In addition, the Group actively implements 物、氮氧化物的產生和排放。此
other administrative means to reduce GHG emissions, including: 外，集團積極以其他行政手段減
少溫室氣體的排放，包括：
Reduction of business trips 減少商務出差
The Group thoroughly understands that business trips increase energy 集團深切理解商務出差會增加能
consumption and lead to an increase in GHG emissions; therefore, the Group 源消耗，導致溫室氣體排放的增
actively decreases the number of business trips to reduce GHG emissions, 加，故積極減少公幹次數，降低
and switches to other effective communication methods, including avoidance 因公幹而導致的溫室氣體排放，
of long-distance meetings which are replaced with telephone and/or video 改用其他有效的溝通方法，包括
conferences, as well as using bulk courier service instead of conducting 避免舉行長途會議，以電話及╱
delivery ourselves to reduce GHG emissions from additional traffic. 或視像會議取代，並且以速遞集
體寄送物料以取代自行送貨，致
力減少由額外交通造成的溫室氣
體排放。
Sourcing from local suppliers 支持本地供貨商採購
Similar to business trips, sourcing with non-local suppliers requires additional 採用非本地供貨商須要額外的運
transportation which increases energy consumption and GHG emissions. 輸過程，情況如同商務出差，對
Preference is given to local suppliers as long as they meet the Group’s 應增加能源消耗及溫室氣體的排
requirements. In each procurement process, the Group will firstly consider 放，故在符合集團要求的條件
and invite local suppliers to provide quotations and product information, and 下，優先選用本地供貨商。在每
then giving balanced consideration to factors such as raw material quality, cost 次的採購過程，集團會先考慮及
and environmental protection. Non-local procurement will be considered 邀請本地供貨商作報價及提供產
only when the local suppliers fail to meet the relevant conditions. 品數據，集團會平衡地考慮原料
質量、成本、環境保護等因素，
只有在本地供貨商供貨不符合相
關條件時，才考慮非本地採購。
58 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Environmental education 環保教育
The Group understands the long-term impact of the electronics industry on 集團明白電子產業對環境的長遠
the environment, and hence has taken on an active role in the supply chain to 影響，故在供應鏈中擔當積極的
promote the importance of emission reduction. The Group has established 角色，致力推廣減排的重要性，
environmental management measures for suppliers to follow, including: for 制定了環境管理措施要求供貨商
all vehicles that enter the Group’s premises, engines must be turned off and 遵守，包括：凡進入集團內的車
may not be kept idle which emits exhaust within the factory’s premises; the 輛，停車後必須熄匙，不得保持
exhaust emissions need to comply with the environmental requirements; all 引擎轉動並在廠區內排放廢氣；
persons within the factory’s premises shall abide by the requirements such 尾氣的排放量須符合環保要求；
as waste classification, no littering and no smoking. In addition, the Group 進入廠區所有人員必須遵守垃圾
requires chemical suppliers and transporters to ensure that chemicals are 分類、垃圾不落地及禁止吸煙等
protected against leakage before arrival and the packaging, containers and 要求。此外，集團要求化學品供
labels of chemicals must comply with the relevant regulatory requirements; 應及運輸商確保化學品在運抵前
and the supply of materials, semi-finished products and finished products 做好防洩漏措施，而化學品的包
shall not contain any intentional or unintentional addition of flammable and 裝、容器及標識等必須符合相關
explosive substances. 法例要求；及供應的物料、半成
品和成品亦不得包含任何有意或
非故意添加的易燃易爆物質。
The Group also incorporates the concept of environmental protection 集團亦將環境保護概念納入員工
into employee’s annual training program to enhance their environmental 的年度培訓計劃中，提升他們的
awareness. Environmental training topics include RoHS, ISO14001 環保意識。環保培訓課題包括
environmental awareness, waste classification, chemical safety and so on. For RoHS、ISO14001環保意識、廢棄
key positions such as manufacturing and cleaning, trainings are provided to 物分類、化學品安全等。針對製
new employees of each month to ensure that they can classify and identify 造及清潔等關鍵崗位，更為每月
hazardous and non-hazardous wastes as well as arrange the qualified recycling 新入職的員工提供培訓，確保他
companies for handling. 們能分類及標識有害廢棄物與無
害廢棄物，並安排合資格的回收
公司處理。
Annual Report 2021 年報 59IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
During the reporting period, the Group did not have any non-compliance 在報告期間，集團沒有任何違反
incidents of environmental legislations. The sources and emission volumes of 環境法例的個案發生。溫室氣體
GHG are as follows: 的源頭及排放量如下：
GHG emission volumes
Total consumption volumes (kg carbon dioxide equivalent)
溫室氣體排放量
GHG emission sources 溫室氣體的排放源 總耗量 （公斤二氧化碳含量）
2021 2020 2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年
Diesel consumption from 固定源的柴油耗量
stationary sources (litres) （公升） – – – –
Diesel consumption from 流動源的柴油耗量
mobile sources (litres) （公升） 30 90 80.07 240.2
Gasoline consumption from 流動源的汽油耗量
mobile sources (litres) （公升） 1,372 3,732 3,119.03 8,484
Natural gas consumption 天然氣耗量
(cubic meters) （立方米） – 13,713 – 30,060
Power consumption of facilities 設施耗電量
(kWh) （千瓦時） 1,435,820 2,055,061 1,195,015 1,720,148
Total GHG emissions 溫室氣體的排放總量 – – 1,198,214 1,758,933
Production volume (piece) 生產量（件） – – 86,174 193,120
GHG emission intensity 溫室氣體排放密度 – – 13.9 9.1
(kg carbon dioxide equivalent/piece)
（公斤二氧化碳含量╱件）
60 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.1.2 Use of Resources 3.1.2 資源使用
The Group understands that the resources on the planet are limited, 集團明白地球上的資源有限，故
therefore appropriate measures have been implemented to enhance the 推行適當措施以提升資源使用的
efficiency of resources used, including: 效率，包括：
Energy saving 節約能源
In order to reduce energy consumption, the Group uses energy-efficient 為了減少能源的消耗，集團儘
products and equipment as much as possible, and actively plans to replace 量使用能源效益較高的產品及
equipment with high energy consumption, such as replacement of the 設備，積極計劃更換高能耗的設
factory’s traditional electric lights with LED lights in 2018. The air conditioning 備，如於二零一八年度將工廠內
system uses a central control to effectively manage the temperature of each 的傳統電燈更換成LED燈。空調
department and automatic shutdown is scheduled at a specified time to 系統採用中央控制，有效管理各
reduce additional energy consumption caused by uncontrolled temperature 部門的溫度，並設定在指定時間
adjustments. In addition, an employee’s code for energy saving has been 後自動關閉中央空調，以減少非
formulated, which requires employees to turn off electrical devices in office 受控的溫度調整而導致額外的能
and production when off work, in order to ensure all machinery are shut 源消耗。此外，制定員工節約能
down when out of working hours. The goal is to help employees nurture a 源守則，要求員工每天下班離開
habit of “shutting down machinery when leaving workplace”. 工作位置時必須關閉辦公及生產
用電設備，確保所有機器在下班
時都關掉。目標是養成員工「人走
關機」的習慣。
Water conservation 節約用水
In addition to re-use of treated wastewater, the Group has adopted 除了循環使用經處理後的廢水，
various administrative measures to enhance water consumption efficiency. 集團亦採用多重的行政手段以提
Wastewater is collected in daily operations and used for non-production 升用水效益。在日常營運中會收
purposes, such as toilet flushing or floor cleaning. Inspection and timely repairs 集廢棄水，用作一般非生產的用
for leakage are conducted on water-consuming equipment in the production 途，如沖廁或沖洗地板等。對在
workshops and offices to avoid water wastage. Also, water conservation 生產車間及辦公室的用水設備，
slogans are posted on bulletin boards to enhance employees’ awareness 進行檢查並及時改善設備滴漏的
of water conservation, and remind employees and visitors of water saving. 狀況，防止滴漏浪費水資源。此
During meetings, bottled water is replaced by reusable water containers to 外，在宣傳欄張貼節約用水標
change the unfavourable employees’ habit of using bottled water at meetings. 語，加強員工節約用水的意識，
提醒員工及訪客節約用水。在舉
辦會議時，以可重用的盛水器皿
取代瓶裝水，改變員工在會議時
使用瓶裝水的壞習慣。
Annual Report 2021 年報 61IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
The Group’s production site in Shenzhen has demonstrated the following 透過落實以上節約用水政策及措
achievements in the reporting period through the implementation of the 施，集團的深圳生產基地在報告
aforesaid policies and measures for water conservation: 期間已取得以下成效：
Sources/types of water used Volume of water saved
用水源頭╱種類 節省用水量
Re-use of treated production wastewater 3 cubic meters per month
循環使用處理後的生產廢水 3立方米╱月
Wastewater used for flushing toilets and cleaning floors 3 cubic meters per month
廢棄水用作沖廁或沖洗地板 3立方米╱月
Bottled water replaced by reusable water container in meeting 20 bottles per meeting
可重用的盛水器皿取代瓶裝水 20瓶水╱會議
Saving of office resources 節約辦公室資源
Electronic documentation is promoted in daily operation, hardcopies are 在日常營運中提倡文件電子化，
replaced by electronic files in computer and whenever possible paperless 使用計算機存盤代替紙質文件，
office operation is implemented to reduce the use of paper consumables. 儘量實行無紙化辦公，以減少紙
The Group sets targets on paper usage, setting out expectations on paper 質辦公用品的使用；並設定紙用
saving for all departments. Employees are required to practice double-sided 量的目標指針，對集團各部門定
printing. When copying or printing files, paper with only one side used should 下節約用紙的期望；要求員工紙
be collected for re-use to save paper. The amount of paper used in 2021 張採用雙面打印。在複印或打印
decreased compared to 2020. 文件時，將單面用過的紙張回收
再利用，節約用紙。二零二一年
的用紙量較二零二零年減少。
A summary of various key resources consumed by the Group’s operations 在報告期內，集團在運作期間所
during the reporting period is as follows: 消耗的各種主要資源概列如下：
Annual consumption (tons) Intensity per production unit
全年總量（噸） 每生產單位的排放密度
2021 2020 2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
GHG emission sources 溫室氣體的排放源 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
Electricity (kWh) 電力（千瓦時） 154,770 1,281,050 193,197 1,862,404 1.8 14.9 1 9.64
Water (cubic meters) 水（立方米） 18 48,769 30 87,685 – 0.57 – 0.45
Packaging materials 包裝物料（紙材） N/A N/A N/A N/A
(paper) (piece) （以個計算） 不適用 685,770 不適用 1,539,085 不適用 7.95 不適用 7.97
Packaging materials 包裝物料（膠材） N/A N/A N/A N/A
(plastic) (piece) （以個計算） 不適用 40,122 不適用 921,572 不適用 0.466 不適用 4.77
62 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.1.3 The Environment and Natural Resources 3.1.3 環境及自然資源
The Group understands the environmental concerns from both community 集團了解社會及客戶對環保議題
and customers. The Company promotes policy on green manufacturing and 的關注，公司提倡綠色製造及綠
green procurement policy: 色採購政策：
Green procurement policy 綠色採購政策
Subject to fulfillment of the Group’s operating and pricing requirements, 在符合集團營運要求及價格因素
preference is given to suppliers who are able to provide environmentally 的情況下，優先選擇能提供環保
friendly products and/or services, including environmentally certified 產品及╱或服務的供應商，覆
materials or services (such as RoHS and REACH compliant materials), use 蓋有環保認證的物料或服務（如
of products made of natural materials, products free of toxic and hazardous RoHS、REACH的合規物料），採
substances, and other products/devices compliant with the relevant 用天然材料製造的產品，不含有
environmental regulations. The Group has been actively promoting the 毒、有害物質的產品及其他符合
proportion of environmental suppliers (the proportion of suppliers providing 環境相關法例要求的產品╱設備
environmentally friendly materials to the total suppliers), with the goal that 等。集團積極提升環保供應商的
the materials provided by suppliers are 100% RoHS compliant. 比重（提供環保物料的供應商佔全
部供應商的比例），目標是供應商
提供的物料皆為100%符合RoHS的
產品。
Green manufacturing policy 綠色製造政策
Since the Group’s business is the manufacturing of electronic products, the 因應集團業務為電子產品的製
main environmental impacts are electronic waste generation and resource 造，主要的環境影響在電子廢
consumption during the production process. Therefore, a green manufacturing 物的產生及生產過程中的資源耗
policy has been implemented along with the green procurement policy 用，故奉行綠色製造政策，配合
to provide customers with environmental compliant products, including 綠色採購政策，向客戶提供符合
compliance with the local environmental laws for importing countries, such as 環保要求的產品，包括符合入
RoHS, REACH. 口國當地的環保法例如RoHS、
REACH等。
The Group is committed to the use of energy-efficient and water-efficient 在製造的過程上，集團致力採用
equipment in the manufacturing process. Resource recycling process is 節能節水的設備。設立資源回收
established to collect the reusable packaging materials for proper handling, 過程，對可回收的包材進行回收
in order to reduce waste generation and wastage of various production 處理，降低各種生產資源的浪
resources. A sewage treatment plant treats wastewater from production 費，減少產生廢棄物，並設有污
to meet environmental standards, which is then is recycled to be used for 水處理池，將生產廢水處理並當
production or other purposes. This not only reduces wastewater discharge 達到環保標準後，再循環使用作
but also decreases the total water consumption. 生產或其他用途，減少廢水排放
的同時又可節省總用水量。
Annual Report 2021 年報 63IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
The Group has formulated day-to-day management measures to reduce and 集團制定日常管理措施以減少及
control the emissions of hazardous wastes. Annual environmental trainings 控制有害廢棄物的排放。每年提
are provided to employees to enhance their environmental awareness and to 供環保培訓予員工，提升他們的
implement environmental management measures. 環保意識及落實環保管理措施。
In addition, the Group regularly monitors its significant environmental 此外，集團定期對重大環境影響
impacts to ensure compliance with local regulations. Regular environmental 的因素進行監測，確保遵守業務
investigations are conducted to ensure timely discovery of non-compliance 當地的法例要求。定期進行環境
incidents and implementation of corrective and preventive actions. 審核，及時發現不符合事項並且
採取糾正與預防措施。
3.2 Society 3.2 社會
3.2.1 Employment 3.2.1 僱傭
In addition to complying with local employment regulations, the Group has 集團除了遵守業務當地的僱傭條
also formulated a series of employment policies to ensure that employees are 例要求，亦制定了一系列的僱傭
treated in a fair and reasonable manner. 政策，保障僱員獲得公平合理的
對待。
Recruitment and promotion 招聘及晉升
The Group recruits employees through the company’s website, email, 集團通過公司網站、電郵、廣告
advertisements, etc., and gives equal opportunity to every job applicant. 等招聘員工，對每位工作應徵者
The Group does not reject applicants out of gender, age, race, and other 都給予平等的權利，絕不會因性
physical conditions. Employment decisions are solely based on fulfilment of 別、年齡、種族及及其他身體狀
the job requirements, and the Group does not discriminate against physically 況拒絕應徵者。聘請的決定都是
disabled applicants. Besides local applicants, applicants of other ethnicities and 從符合工作要求的角度去考慮，
nationalities are also considered at the time of recruitment, including ethnic 不會歧視身體有障礙的應徵者。
minorities and expatriates. 在招聘時，除了本地人的申請，
還會考慮其他種族及國家的應徵
者，包括少數族裔和外籍人士。
Regarding the mechanism for employee’s promotion, the Group only refers 對於員工的晉升機制，集團只會
to the employee’s performance, experience and competence, and does not 參考員工的工作表現、經驗及個
consider other irrelevant attributes such as marital status, physical condition 人能力，不會考慮其他無關係的
and gender, etc. 因素如婚姻、身體狀況及性別等。
64 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Wages and benefits 薪酬與福利
The Group enters into a contract of employment with its employees 集團按業務當地的法例與員工簽
in accordance with local laws to ensure employees’ legal rights in the 定僱傭合約，保障員工在僱傭關
employment relationship, including the payment of legal minimum wage, 係上的法定權益，包括確保最低
and employees’ entitlement to paid holidays, vacation, sick leave and leave 工資的支付，員工依法享有帶薪
for work-related injury. In addition to the purchase of social insurance for 節日假期，病假和工傷假等。除
employees according to local employment regulations, the Group also 了按當地的僱傭條例為員工購買
purchases commercial insurance beyond the local regulations in order 社會保險，更為員工購買法例要
to reduce employee’s cost of seeking for medical services. In case of 求以外的商業保險，降低員工使
work-related injuries and accidents, the Group will arrange reasonable 用醫療服務的成本。遇到工傷事
compensation for its employees and their families in accordance with laws. 故及意外時，集團會依法對員工
及其家屬安排合理賠償。
During the reporting period, the Group did not discover or receive any 在報告期內，集團並無發現或收
violations or complaints regarding discrimination or recruitment. As of 31 到有關於歧視或招聘的違規事件
December 2021, the total number and distribution of employees within the 或投訴個案。截至二零二一年
Group are as follows: 十二月三十一日，集團內的員工
總數及分佈概述如下：
Number of employees
僱員人數
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Gender 性別 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
Male 男性 1 121 3 143
Female 女性 3 228 5 277
Number of employees
僱員人數
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Job type 工作類別 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
Full-time 全職 4 349 8 420
Part-time 兼職 0 0 0 0
Annual Report 2021 年報 65IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Number of employees
僱員人數
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Age 員工年齡 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
18–30 18–30 0 9 0 25
31–45 31–45 3 203 4 264
46–60 46–60 1 135 4 131
> 60 ＞ 60 0 2 0 0
Total 總數 4 349 8 420
Average monthly employee turnover rate (%)
平均每月僱員流失率(%)
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Gender 性別 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
Male 男性 0.167 0.017 5.56 0.87
Female 女性 0.056 0.02 1.67 1.8
Average monthly employee turnover rate (%)
平均每月僱員流失率(%)
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Age 員工年齡 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
18–30 18–30 0 0.07 0 2.67
31–45 31–45 0.11 0.02 2.08 1.58
46–60 46–60 0 0.02 4.17 1.08
> 60 ＞ 60 0 0 0 0
Total average 總平均數 0.11 0.037 3.13 1.78
66 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.2.2 Health and Safety 3.2.2 健康與安全
The Group is committed to achieving the goal of zero work accidents 集團致力達致零工作意外的目
through different measures to prevent the occurrence of occupational 標，以不同方面的措施防範員工
diseases and work-related injuries and fatalities. 職業病與工業傷亡的發生。
Workplace Safety Management 工作場所之安全管理
The Group conducts annual safety monitoring to identify potential safety 集團進行年度安全監測工作，找
hazards, and implement corrective and preventive actions in a timely manner. 出安全隱患，及時執行糾正及預
The Group installed protective devices for the production equipment and 防措施。對工作場所的生產設備
machinery in the workplace to ensure that employees are not exposed to 及機器，安裝防護裝置，確保員
dangerous parts. The compliance of the workplace is monitored, including 工接觸不到危險的部份。監控工
the provision of adequate fire equipment and regular safety inspection. In 作場所的合規狀況，包括配備足
addition, suppliers are requested to follow safety practice within the Group’s 夠的消防器材，並定期進行安全
premises. All vehicles within the premises must be limited to the speed of 檢查。此外，要求供貨商在集團
10 km/hour with no horns allowed. Their driving routes shall follow the 範圍內進行安全操作，凡進入公
instructions from the security team. 司的車輛一律限速每小時10公里
以內，嚴禁鳴按喇叭，行駛路線
須按值班保安調度。
Employee Safety Training 員工安全培訓
The Group provides personal protective equipment to employees where 集團在必要時向員工提供個人防
necessary, and arranges appropriate occupational health and safety trainings, 護裝備，並安排適當的職業健康
including the proper usage of protective equipment, awareness of safety 及安全培訓，包括正確使用防護
risks in the work place, content in the material safety data sheet and the 裝備的方法，認識工作處所中的
use, storage and emergency response to leakage of chemicals. The Group 安全風險，物質安全數據表的內
also arranges fire and emergency drills regularly to train employees on the 容，化學品安全使用、儲存、
evacuation routes at dangerous situations. 洩漏應急等方面的培訓。集團亦
安排員工定期進行消防及應急演
習，培訓員工在危急時的逃生路
線。
Annual Report 2021 年報 67IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Work-life Balance 工作與生活的平衡
The Group never forces employees to work overtime, and regularly 集團絕不會強迫員工超時工作，
organises recreational activities, psychological counselling and trainings to help 並會定期舉辦娛樂活動、心理輔
employees relieve stress, including psychological health seminars, family days, 導、培訓等幫助員工減壓，包括
tug-of-wars, seaside walk, watching movies, hand-craft, and explores various 曾提供心理健康講座、舉辦家庭
sport activities amongst employees. 親子日、拔河比賽、海濱徒步、
觀影、手工製作、開展各式各樣
的員工體育活動。
In addition, the Group is very concerned about how employees view the 除此之外，集團非常關注員工對
Company, therefore employees’ communication channels and suggestion 公司的意見，故制定員工溝通渠
boxes have been set up. The suggestions collected from the employees are 道，設立員工意見收集箱，定期
followed up on a regular basis. Employee representatives are selected from 對收集的員工意見跟進。在集團
each department with the Group and they shall meet regularly for discussion 各部門選出員工代表，定期組織
and sharing. 員工代表開會、討論與交流。
During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any violations against 在報告期間，集團沒有發現違反
the local occupational health and safety regulations. Within the reporting 當地職業健康及安全相關的法
period, no work-related fatality and lost day due to work-related injury was 例。在報告期內，沒有發現僱員
found. 因工作關係而死亡。
68 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.2.3 Development and Training 3.2.3 發展及培訓
The Group has established a comprehensive training system. Apart from 集團建立完善的培訓體系，除了
general classroom trainings, the Group emphasises on-the-job exercises and 一般的課堂培訓外，集團強調工
a mentor is assigned to every new employee. Through this apprenticeship 作實踐，故安排指導工給每位新
programme, the mentor gives hands-on guidance and supervises the new 員工，以「師帶徒」的方式親身指
employee in accomplishing his/her work, which enhances training efficiency 導及監督新員工完成工作，提升
and the new employee’s performance. Adjustments could be made to the 培訓效益及新員工的績效。「師帶
apprenticeship program according to the new employee’s competence and 徒」培訓可以按新員工的不同能力
experience. At the same time, based on the Group’s strategies for product 及經驗水平作出彈性調整，同時
and business development, career development plans are formulated for 因應產品開發與業務拓展策略，
employees to support the sustainable development of the Group’s business. 對員工制定職業發展計劃，及推
動集團業務的持續發展。
During the reporting period, the monthly average percentage of employees 在報告期間，集團內部接受培訓
who have received training within the Group and the monthly average 的僱員的每月平均百分比及每名
number of trained hours received by each employee are as follows: 僱員的每月平均培訓時數如下：
Monthly average percentage of Monthly average number of
trained employees (%) trained hours per employee
接受培訓的僱員的每月平均百分比 每名僱員的每月平均培訓時數
2021 2020 2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Gender 性別 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
Male 男性 0 5.5 0 6.1 0 0 3 51
Female 女性 0 37.6 0 7.1 0 45 0 55
Monthly average percentage of Monthly average number of
trained employees (%) trained hours per employee
接受培訓的僱員的每月平均百分比 每名僱員的每月平均培訓時數
2021 2020 2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年
Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen
Employee level 僱員級別 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳
Senior management 高級管理層 0 12 0 13 0 10 0 10
Middle management 中級管理層 8 8 8 8 8 11 8 11
Junior employee 初級員工 0 6 0 6 0 58 0 58
Annual Report 2021 年報 69IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.2.4 Labour Standards 3.2.4 勞工準則
The Group strictly prohibits the employment of child labour and will only 集團嚴格禁止聘用童工，只會聘
employ employees aged 18 or above. The Group follows the principle 請年滿18歲或以上的員工，及奉
of voluntary overtime to ensure that employees are willing to work and 行自願加班原則，確保員工自願
employee’s personal freedom is protected. The Group is committed not to 工作，保障員工人身自由，承諾
force employees to work overtime nor to work in any form of forced labour, 不強迫員工超時工作及不以任何
including not using any bonded labours such as prison workers. 形式強迫僱員工作，包括不使用
強迫勞動工如囚工等。
For effective prevention of child labour, the applicant’s identity document 為了有效的防止童工，在招聘時
will be carefully examined at the time of recruitment to confirm the age of 會仔細查看應徵者的身份證明文
the applicant, and the application from an applicant less than 18 years of age 件以確認應徵者的年齡，會剔除
shall be excluded. In addition, the Group’s personnel management system 未滿18歲應徵者的申請。此外，
set up an alert function to signal any applicant under the age of 18. With this 集團的人事管理系統設置了年齡
double gate-keeping mechanism, the risk of recruitment of child labour could 未滿18歲的提醒功能，在此雙重
be avoided. Under the daily management, child labour will be terminated 查核的機制下避免誤聘童工的風
immediately when he/she is discovered within the Group. 險。在日常管理下如發現童工在
集團內工作，將會立刻停止僱用。
The Group has also set up measures to prevent forced labour. Employees 集團亦制定防止強制勞工的措
are required to submit working hours to their immediate supervisors. The 施，員工需呈交工作時數予其直
human resources department will review employees’ working hours, and 屬上司，人力資源部查看員工的
would investigate immediately and stop the relevant work assignment in case 工時記錄，當發現不自願超時情
of involuntarily overtime identified. 況，會立刻調查，並制止不自願
的超時工作。
During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any employment 在報告期間，集團未有發現聘用
of child labour nor any violation against the laws and regulations related to 童工及違反強制性勞動相關的法
forced labour. 律及法例。
70 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.2.5 Supply Chain Management 3.2.5 供應鏈管理
The Group has developed supplier management policy for communication 集團制定供貨商管理政策及要
to the suppliers the expectations of the Group and the requirements that 求，向供貨商溝通集團的期望並
they need to abide by. The policy covers quality, environmental management, 要求他們及其人員遵守。這些管
health and safety, social responsibility, and anti-terrorism management, etc. 理政策覆蓋的範圍包括質量、環
and these aspects are also the criteria for supplier selection. The Group 境管理、健康安全、社會責任、
has established a supplier selection and evaluation procedure, which 反恐管理等多方面，而該等方面
conducted an initial review of new suppliers and an annual evaluation of 亦是挑選供貨商的準則。集團建
key suppliers in the form of on-site audits or questionnaires. The contents 立了供貨商選擇及評審程序，對
of the evaluation include product quality, delivery time, environment, use of 新供貨商進行首次評審及對關鍵
environmental friendly materials, and management of hazardous substances. 供貨商進行年度評審，形式以現
After the evaluation, results shall be recorded as monitoring evidence for the 場審核或調查表執行。評審內容
subsequent long-term partnership. 包括產品質量、交貨期、環境、
環保物質使用、有害物質管理，
評審後將結果形成記錄作為日後
長期合作夥伴的監控依據。
Besides the aforesaid evaluation scope, procurement preference will be 除上述評審範圍外，會優先考慮
given to local suppliers over their non-local counterparts who demonstrated 有相同條件的本地供貨商，在沒
the same performance level from evaluation. Non-local suppliers shall be 有合適的本地供貨商時才會向外
considered only when no qualified local supplier available. Currently, local 採購。目前本地供貨商佔大約
suppliers account for approximately 73.1%. As of 31 December 2021, the 73.1%，截至二零二一年十二月
geographical distribution of the Group’s suppliers is as follows: 三十一日，集團供貨商的地理分
佈如下：
Number of suppliers
Geographical locations 地理區域 供貨商數量
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
China 中國 51 114
Hong Kong 香港 17 38
USA 美國 1 2
Taiwan 台灣 2 2
Germany 德國 – –
Other 其他 – –
Annual Report 2021 年報 71IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
3.2.6 Product Responsibility 3.2.6 產品責任
All products of the Group are subject to strict quality inspection/testing 集團所有產品在出廠前均須接受
before shipping out of the factory, including the sampling and monitoring 嚴格的質量檢測，包括來料抽樣
of hazardous substances in incoming materials such as 2011/65/EU the 監測有害物質如2011/65/EU電器
management procedure for the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous 電子產品有害物質限制使用管理
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Products, in-process quality control, 辦法，過程中的質檢控制，及最
and safety verification of the final products. 終產品須接受的安全驗證。
For product promotion and selling, the Group will ensure that the product 所有產品在推廣及銷售時，集團
information provided to the customer is true and accurate to avoid misleading 確保提供給客戶的產品信息必須
the customer at the time of purchase. The Group also has designated 是真實及準確，避免客戶在購買
customer service personnel responsible for responding to customer inquiries 時被誤導。集團亦設有售後客戶
and initiating product recall when necessary. 服務專員，負責跟進客戶的查詢
及必要時啟動產品回收程序。
The Group has formulated a complaint handling mechanism to analyse with 集團制定了投訴處理機制，在收
the quality control department any complaints received from customers, and 到客戶投訴後會與質量部一同分
will report the results of analysis and follow-up actions to customers within 析個案，在指定期限內把分析結
the specified time frame. 果及跟進工作向客戶反映。
During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any customer 在報告期間，集團未有顧客投訴
complaint or violation against regulations related to product responsibility; 或發現違反產品責任相關的法
and no item among all products sold was recalled due to product safety and 例；並且在已售產品總數中未有
health reasons. 發現有產品因安全與健康理由而
需要回收。
72 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Quality Assurance Process 質量檢定過程
The Group starts the quality control of products at the source. Materials 集團對產品的質量控制由源頭開
from suppliers are verified for quality before production, alternatively the 始。供貨商提供的物料在使用前
supplier is requested to provide a quality verification report for raw materials. 會驗收其質量，或要求供貨商提
During the manufacturing process, production lines are inspected and semi- 供原料的合格驗收報告。在製造
finished products are sampled for verification to assure the process meets the 過程中，巡查生產線和抽檢半成
specified technical requirements. Final verification shall be executed by the 品以確認過程符合相關的技術要
quality control department at the end of production; only finished products 求。製造完成後由質量部進行成
which pass the verification could be delivered and sold. 品檢驗，只有檢驗合格後方可出
售貨品。
Upon identification of abnormal products through either external or internal 不管通過外部或內部的發現，當
findings, the Group shall discuss amongst the relevant departments about the 集團確認異常產品，會與相關部
need for identification, segregation and recall of the abnormal products when 門討論對異常產品的標識、隔離
necessary. Whenever product recall is necessary, the Group shall collect 及回收的必要性。如有回收的必
the relevant batches of products from the customer, and implement the 要性，集團將會向客戶回收相關
procedure of nonconforming products for analysis and disposal. 批次的產品，並按不良品的程序
分析及處理。
Product Recall/Return Procedure 產品回收╱退貨程序
The Group has established a product recall/return channel that allow 集團制定了回收╱退貨渠道，可
customers to report product defects through telephone or email. Internal 讓顧客致電或電郵闡述產品問
staff in the Group shall then evaluate the decision on product return upon 題，集團內部相關人員在收到意
receipt of customer’s report. Whenever product return is deemed necessary, 見後會評估產品退貨的決定。若
the marketing department shall inform the customer to return the relevant 須退貨，市場部會通知顧客以退
product. The warehouse department will record and track the returned 回相關產品。貨倉部會將所有退
products, and notify the quality department to conduct cause analysis in order 回的產品進行記錄跟蹤，並通知
to identify solutions and subsequent preventive measures. 質量部進行原因分析，尋找解決
方案及日後的預防措施。
Annual Report 2021 年報 73IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Intellectual Property Protection 知識產權的維護
All products sold by the Group are newly designed on our own. To confirm 集團出售的所有產品都是全新自
intellectual property, products are regularly sampled to check if their designs 家設計。為了確認知識產權，會
belong to the Group’s own companies. Upon discovery of designs that 定期抽查產品的設計是否由自家
infringe copyright, the product will immediately be taken off shelves. 公司擁有。當發現有違權的設
計，會立刻安排產品下架。
The Group only adopts products from its own design centre, and the design 集團只會採用由自家設計中心的
centre does not plagiarize the design of other institutions. Design department 產物，設計中心不會抄襲其他機
employees are prohibited by their employment contracts from any acts 構的設計。在僱傭合約中，要求
of plagiarism and are required to undertake that all produced designs are 設計部員工不容許有任何抄襲行
company property and to assume responsibility for the confidentiality of their 為，且須承諾所有設計產物都屬
own produced designs. 公司資產及須對自己設計的產物
承擔保密責任。
Currently, the Group has 5 product patents registered in the USA, 4 product 到目前為止，集團有5個產品專利
patents registered in the European Union, 9 product patents registered in 在美國註冊，有4個在歐盟註冊，
the PRC, and 1 product patent registered in Hong Kong. For management of 有9個在中國註冊，有1個在香港
information security, the Group has established a Knowledge Management 註冊。在信息安全管理方面，集
System (“KMS”) through which information of the Group’s own design and 團建立知識管理系統（「KMS」），
product specifications from customers are encrypted to prevent data leakage. 自家設計與客戶提供的產品規格
等信息均透過此系統加密保護以
防數據外泄。
The Group undertakes not to purchase any pirated office software, and such 集團承諾不會購買任何盜版辦公
software shall only be purchased from suppliers who have the appropriate 軟件，只從持有版權的供貨商採
copyright; in addition, the IT Department conducts internal audit to monitor 購；另外，信息科技部會進行內
any download of pirated software by employees. When employees are 審，監察員工有否下載盜版軟件
discovered using pirated software, he/she will be instructed to delete the 的狀況。如發現員工使用盜版軟
pirated software immediately and issued a warning letter for prevention of 件，會立即通知員工移除，並向
recurrence. 其發出警告信防止再犯。
74 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Privacy Protection of Consumer Information 消費者數據的私隱保障
The Group has developed a policy for protection of consumer information 集團制定了消費者資料及私隱的
and privacy. Consumer information will not be used for publicity or 保障政策，未經客戶允許一概不
promotion without consumer’s permission. If business operations require 會將客戶數據用於公開宣傳。如
passing consumer data to contractors, the Group shall enter into a 在業務的運營上有需要將消費者
confidentiality agreement with the contractor and require the contractor 資料交由承包商處理，集團會與
to have a comprehensive information security management system for 承包商簽定保密協議，並要求
preventing leakage and theft of customer information. 承包商有完善的信息安全管理系
統，以防客戶數據外泄及被盜。
3.2.7 Anti-corruption 3.2.7 反貪污
The Group has established corporate governance policies in accordance with 集團按照聯交所企業管理守則，
the CG Code from the Stock Exchange. Also, the Group has formulated 制定企業管治政策；並制定反貪
an anti-corruption policy and prohibits the Company’s Directors, managers, 污政策，禁止公司董事、經理、
employees and other representatives from giving or accepting bribes. 員工及其他代表贈送或收授賄賂。
Internal Audit of Corporate Governance 企業管治內部審核
The Group has established an AC which is responsible for developing internal 集團設有審計委員會，負責制定
audit control procedures and annual audit plans for the Group. The AC 集團內部審計管制程序及年度審
conducts audits in an ongoing and systematic manner in accordance with the 計計劃，根據年度審計計劃及領
annual audit plan and the additional tasks delegated by the top management. 導層額外公佈的工作任務，持續
Audit reports are regularly communicated with the management and 有序開展審計項目。審計報告定
disclosed to the AC. Corrective actions and subsequent follow-ups shall be 期與管理層進行溝通並向審計委
implemented in accordance with the time frame specified in the audit report. 員會披露，根據審計報告規定的
時間整改及進行後續跟進。
Moreover, the Group engages an independent third party to audit the 此外，集團聘用獨立第三方審計
Group’s financial accounts, to ensure the Company’s accounts are clear and 集團的財務賬目，確保公司的賬
accurate for enhancement of internal financial control and supervision so that 目分明準確，加強內部財務控制
the interests of shareholders are protected. 度與監督，以保障股東的權益。
Annual Report 2021 年報 75IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Environmental, Social and Governance Report
環境、社會及管治報告
Anti-corruption Awareness Training 反貪意識培訓
The Group declares its internal code of integrity at least once a year with an 集團每年至少一次宣佈企業內部
emphasis on the awareness of corporate integrity; this includes the principle 誠信準則，強調企業誠信意識，
that the Group never owes compensation, benefits and bonuses to its 包括從不拖欠員工薪酬、福利及
employees and never owes payments to its suppliers. Also, additional effort is 獎金；不拖欠供貨商貨款，並特
made to strengthen the awareness of anti-corruption to key departments and 別對關鍵部門與崗位加強反貪意
positions. The Group communicates anti-corruption and integrity through 識。在集團內通過熱線、網站、
hotline, website and posters, and has established investigation channel for 海報等溝通企業反貪誠信，並設
employees to report suspected fraud or corruption and other illegal incidents 置調查渠道供員工舉報疑似舞弊
such as extortion and money laundering. 或貪污及其他違法事件如勒索、
洗黑錢等。
Whistle-blowing Procedure 舉報程序
The Group has a whistle-blowing mechanism and communication channel for 集團設有舉報機制及溝通渠道，
employees, customers and suppliers to freely report on any fraud, corruption 供員工、客戶及供貨商自由舉報
and other illegal incidents. The reporting person may send a written message 關於任何舞弊、貪污或其他違法
to the mailbox of IA in confidence and with anonymity. Upon receipt, the IA 事件，舉報人士可以保密及匿名
shall conduct investigation with other relevant departments such as human 的書面方式發送至內審部郵箱，
resources, legal, logistics and career development, and then revert with the 收到後內審部與其他相關部門如
investigation results to the reporting person. 人力、法務、物流及事業發展部
門進行調查，把調查結果反饋給
舉報人士。
Anti-corruption Measures 反貪措施
In addition, the Group has established anti-corruption measures for various 除此以外，集團制定不同範疇的
aspects, including the declaration of personal interests by new employees 反貪措施；包括新員工在入職時
upon commencing employment. Further, Directors are required to declare 需申報個人利益。另外，董事也
according to the law their own interests including those in the competition 按法律規定申報其董事權益及在
business; regarding procurement, evaluation from at least three suppliers is 競爭業務中擁有的權益。對於採
required to obtain fair and reliable quotes for making procurement decision; 購管控，要求收集至少三家供貨
for approval of service contracts, different levels of personnel are authorized 商的評估資料才作出採購決定，
corresponding to different levels of contract amount in order to ensure 確保公平公正的採購報價。對於
adequate review. 服務合約的審批，針對不同的合
約金額授權不同級別的審批人，
以確保足夠的查核。
During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any legal cases or 在報告期間，集團未有發現與貪
complaints related to corruption. 污相關的違例案件或投訴。
76 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
The Directors of the Company are pleased to present to the shareholders the annual 本公司董事會欣然向各股東呈覽本集團截至
report and audited financial statements of the Group during the year ended 31 December 二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度（「二零
2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year” and for the year ended 31 December 2020, “FY2020”). 二一年年度」或「本年度」）及截至二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度（「二零二零年年度」）
之年報及經審核財務報表。
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 主要業務
The Company acts as an investment holding company. Its principal subsidiaries are engaged 本公司乃一間投資控股公司。各主要附屬公
in investment holdings, design, development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of 司從事投資控股、設計、開發、製造、市場
lifestyle electronic products. Details of the principal activities of the Group are set out in 推廣及分銷時尚生活電子產品。本集團主要
note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 業務之詳情載於本年報綜合財務報表附註1。
REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION 收益及分部資料
Details of revenue and segment information are set out in note 6 to the consolidated 收益分部資料詳情載於本年報綜合財務報表
financial statements contained in this annual report. 附註6。
RESULTS 業績
The results of the Group for FY2021 are set out in the consolidated statement of profit or 本集團於二零二一年年度之業績載於本年報
loss and other comprehensive income included in this annual report and further analysis is 之綜合損益及其他全面收益表，進一步分析
given in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 則載於隨附之綜合財務報表附註。
DIVIDENDS 股息
No interim dividend was paid for FY2021 (FY2020: nil). 本公司並無於二零二一年年度派付中期股息
（二零二零年年度：無）。
The Directors do not recommend the distribution of a final dividend for FY2021 (FY2020: 董事會不建議就二零二一年年度派發末期股
nil). 息（二零二零年年度：無）。
GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY 集團財務概要
A summary of the results and of the assets and liabilities of the Group for the last five 本集團過去五個財政年度之業績及資產與負
financial years is set out in the section headed “Group Financial Summary” of this annual 債概要載於本年報「集團財務概要」一節。
report.
SHARE CAPITAL 股本
Details of movements in the share capital of the Company during FY2021 are set out in 本公司於二零二一年年度股本之變動詳情載
note 26 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 於本年報綜合財務報表附註26。
Annual Report 2021 年報 77IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
RESERVES 儲備
Details of movements in reserves of the Group and of the Company during the Year are 本集團及本公司於本年度內儲備之變動詳情
set out in the consolidated statement of changes in equity contained in this annual report, 載於本年報之綜合權益變動表及本年報綜合
and the financial information of the Company in note 35 to the consolidated financial 財務報表附註35之本公司財務資料。
statements contained in this annual report.
DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES 可供分派儲備
At 31 December 2021, the Company did not have reserves available for distribution as 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，根據百慕達
calculated in accordance with the provisions of the laws of Bermuda. 法律條文計算，本公司並無可供分派儲備。
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 物業、機器及設備
During FY2021, the Group did not make any spending (FY2020: approximately HK$0.3 本集團於二零二一年年度並無就業務擴充購
million) on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment for the purpose of business 置物業、機器及設備之支出（二零二零年年
expansion. 度：約港幣0.3百萬元）。
Details of movements in property, plant and equipment of the Group during the Year are 本集團於本年度內物業、機器及設備之變動
set out in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 詳情載於綜合財務報表附註14。
MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 主要客戶及供貨商
During FY2021, the aggregate percentage of purchases attributable to the Group’s five 於二零二一年年度，向本集團五大供貨商於
largest suppliers in the Year accounted for approximately 41.7% of the Group’s purchases 本年度之採購貨額合共佔本集團之採購額約
and the purchases attributable to the largest supplier accounted for approximately 18.2% 41.7%，而向最大供貨商之採購額則佔本集團
of the Group’s purchases. 之採購額約18.2%。
During FY2021, the aggregate percentage of turnover attributable to the Group’s five 於二零二一年年度，本集團五大客戶之營業
largest customers was approximately 62.1% of the Group’s turnover and the percentage 額合共佔本集團之營業額約62.1%，而來自本
of turnover attributable to the Group’s largest customer was approximately 21.0% of the 集團最大客戶之營業額則佔本集團之營業額
Group’s turnover. 約21.0%。
None of the Directors, their associates or shareholders of the Company, who to the 各董事、彼等之聯繫人士或據董事所知擁有
knowledge of the Directors own more than 5% of the Company’s share capital, had any 本公司5%以上股本之本公司股東，概無在任
interest in any of the five largest customers. 何五大客戶中擁有任何權益。
78 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
DIRECTORS 董事
The Directors who held office during FY2021 and up to the date of this report are: 於二零二一年年度及直至本報告日期之本公
司在任董事如下：
Executive Director: 執行董事：
Zhu Yongning (Chief Executive Officer) 朱永寧（行政總裁）
Non-Executive Director: 非執行董事：
Cui Xiao 崔嘯
Independent Non-Executive Directors: 獨立非執行董事：
Zhou Meilin 周美林
Zhou Rui 周銳
Xu Jinwen 徐錦文
In accordance with Bye-Law 89 of the Company’s Bye-Laws, any Director appointed 根據本公司章程細則第89條，額外獲委任加
as an additional Director or to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office only until the next 入董事會或填補臨時空缺之任何董事將僅任
following annual general meeting (the “AGM”) of the Company and shall be eligible for re- 職直至本公司下屆股東週年大會（「股東週年
election but shall not be taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of 大會」），屆時將合資格在會上獲重選連任，
Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting. 惟於釐定應於該股東大會輪值告退的董事人
選或董事數目時不應被計入在內。
The Company has received an annual confirmation of independence from each of the 本公司已接獲各獨立非執行董事根據聯交所
Independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules on the 上市規則第3.13條之規定每年作出之獨立確認
Stock Exchange. The Company considers all the Independent Non-Executive Directors as 書。本公司視所有獨立非執行董事屬獨立。
independent.
DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHY 董事之履歷
Biographical details of the existing Directors are set out in the section of “Directors and 現任董事之履歷詳情載於本年報「本集團董事
Senior Management of the Group” contained in this annual report. 及高級管理層」一節。
Annual Report 2021 年報 79IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS 董事服務合約
Each of the Independent Non-Executive Directors has entered into a service contract with 各獨立非執行董事亦已與本公司訂立服務合
the Company for a term of three years which can be terminated by either party giving a 約，任期三年，可由其中一方向另一方發出
three month’s written notice to the other party. Under such service contract, each of the 三個月之書面通知予以終止。根據該服務合
Independent Non-Executive Directors is subject to retirement by rotation at the AGM of 約，各獨立非執行董事須遵照本公司章程細
the Company in accordance with the Company’s Bye-Laws, and is entitled to a fee subject 則於本公司股東週年大會上輪值告退。各獨
to such adjustments as the Board of the Company considers appropriate and the approval 立非執行董事有權收取袍金，此袍金可由本
of the shareholders at AGM of the Company. Remuneration shall be paid to a Director for 公司董事會認為適當時予以調整，惟調整需
appointment as a member of a particular committee. 於本公司股東週年大會上經股東批准。如董
事獲委任為個別委員會之成員，其將獲發薪
酬。
None of the Directors has a service contract which is not determinable by the Group 董事概無訂立任何於一年內若無賠償（法定賠
within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation. 償除外）則不可由本集團終止之服務合約。
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE 董事於重要合約之權益
There were no contracts of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries 本公司或其任何附屬公司於本年度年終或本
was a party and in which a Director had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, 年度任何時間概無訂立董事於其中直接或間
which subsisted at the end of the Year or at any time during the Year. 接擁有重大權益之重要合約。
MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS 管理合約
No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any 於二零二一年年度概無簽訂或存在任何有關
substantial part of the business of the Company were entered into or in existence during 本公司全部或重要部份業務之管理及行政合
FY2021. 約。
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN COMPETING BUSINESS 董事於具競爭性業務之權益
Save as disclosed herein, during the Year, none of the Directors or their respective associates 除本文所披露者外，於本年度，概無董事或
had engaged in or had any interest in any business which competes or may compete with 彼等各自的聯繫人參與任何與或可能與本集
the businesses of the Group. 團業務構成競爭的業務或於其中擁有任何權
益。
80 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SECURITIES 董事之證券權益
The Directors or chief executives of the Company or any of their associates had, as at 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本公司董事
31 December 2021, any interests or short positions in the shares, underlying shares and 及行政總裁以及彼等之任何聯繫人士，於本
debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning 公司或其任何相聯法團（定義見證券及期貨條
of Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which were notified to the 例（「證券及期貨條例」）第XV部）之股份、相關
Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO 股份及債權證中，擁有根據證券及期貨條例
(including interests or short positions which they were taken or deemed to have under the 第XV部第7及8分部須知會本公司及聯交所（包
provisions of the SFO) or which were recorded in the register required to be kept by the 括根據該等證券及期貨條例條文被當作或視
Company under section 352 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company and the 作擁有之權益或淡倉）或本公司根據證券及期
Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code. 貨條例第352條須予備存之登記冊所記錄或根
據標準守則須知會本公司及聯交所之任何權
益或淡倉。
No. of % of the issued
Name Nature of interests shares held shared capital
姓名 權益性質 所持股份數目 佔已發行股本百分比
Zhu Yongning (Note 1) The interests of the controlled corporation 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%
(Note 2)
朱永寧（附註1） 所控制的法團的權利 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%
（附註2）
Notes: 附註：
(1) Zhu Yongning holds 100% of the equity interests of China Huaneng Foundation Construction (1) 朱永寧持有中國華能基礎建設投資有限公司
Investment Ltd (“Huaneng”). Therefore, it is deemed to be interested in the interest in the （「華能」）100%股本權益，因而被視為通過
shares of the Company held by Huaneng through its subsidiary. 其附屬公司擁有華能所持有本公司股份的權
益。
(2) The letter “L” denotes the shareholder’s long position in the shares. (2) 「L」代表董事在此等股份中所持之好倉。
SHARE OPTION SCHEME 購股權計劃
The effective share option scheme (the “2012 Share Option Scheme”) was adopted by 本公司現時有效的購股權（「二零一二年購股
the Company on 29 August 2012. During FY2021, no share was granted, exercised, lapsed 權計劃」）於二零一二年八月二十九日採納。
or cancelled under the 2012 Share Option Scheme. As at 31 December 2021, there was 於二零二一年年度，根據二零一二年購股
no outstanding share option of the Company. 權計劃，概無任何購股權被授予、獲行使、
失效或被取消。於二零二一年十二月三十一
日，本公司並無尚未行使的購股權。
Annual Report 2021 年報 81IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
DIRECTORS’ RIGHT TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES 董事購買股份或債權證之權利
No share options were granted to or exercised by the Directors during FY2021 and there is 於二零二一年年度董事並無獲授或行使購股
no outstanding balance as at 31 December 2021. 權及於二零二一年十二月三十一日並無尚未
行使之購股權。
Save as disclosed above, at no time during FY2021 was the Company or any of its 除上文所披露者外，於二零二一年年度，本
subsidiaries a party to any arrangements to enable the Directors or their respective spouse 公司或其任何附屬公司概無參與任何安排，
or children under the age of 18 to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, 使董事或其個別之配偶或十八歲以下之子女
or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate. 可藉購買本公司或任何其他法人團體之股份
或債權證而獲得利益。
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 主要股東
As at 31 December 2021, the following persons (other than the Directors or the chief 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，除本公司董
executives of the Company) had interests or short positions in the shares and underlying 事或行政總裁外，下列人士於本公司之股份
shares of the Company as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company 及相關股份中，擁有本公司根據證券及期貨
under section 336 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company: 條例第336條須予備存之登記冊所記錄或須知
會本公司之權益或淡倉：
No. of % of the issued
shares held shared capital
Name 名稱 所持股份數目 佔已發行股本百分比
China Huaneng Foundation Construction 中國華能基礎建設投資 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%
Investment Ltd 有限公司 (Note 4)（ 附註4）
Zhu Yongning (Note 1) 朱永寧（附註1） 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%
(Note 4)（ 附註4）
Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology 江蘇宏圖高科技股份 556,898,770 (L) 21.42%
Co., Ltd (Note 2) 有限公司（附註2） (Note 4)（ 附註4）
Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology 江蘇宏圖高科技（香港）股份 556,898,770 (L) 21.42%
(Hong Kong) Co. Limited (Note 3) 有限公司（附註3） (Note 4)（ 附註4）
Hongtu High Technology Int’l Inc. Hongtu High Technology Int’l Inc. 556,898,770 (L) 21.42%
(Note 4)（ 附註4）
82 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
Notes: 附註：
(1) Zhu Yongning holds 100% of the equity interests of China Huaneng Foundation Construction (1) 朱永寧持有中國華能基礎建設投資有限公司
Investment Ltd (“Huaneng”). Therefore, it is deemed to be interested in the interest in the （「華能」）100%股本權益，因而被視為通過
shares of the Company held by Huaneng through its subsidiary. 其附屬公司擁有華能所持有本公司股份的權
益。
(2) Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology Co., Ltd. holds 100% of the equity interests of Jiangsu (2) 江蘇宏圖高科技股份有限公司持有江蘇宏圖
Hongtu High Technology (Hong Kong) Co. Limited (“Hongtu (HK)”). Therefore, it is deemed 高科技（香港）股份有限公司（「宏圖（香港）」）
to be interested in the interest in the shares of the Company held by Hongtu (HK) through its 100%股本權益，因而被視為通過其附屬公司
subsidiary (see note 3 below). （見下文附註3）擁有宏圖（香港）所持本公司
股份的權益。
(3) Hongtu (HK) holds 100% of the issued share of Hongtu High Technology Int’l Inc. (“Hongtu (3) 宏圖（香港）持有Hongtu High Technology
(Seychelles)”). Therefore, Hongtu (HK) is deemed to be interested in the 556,898,770 shares Int’l Inc.（ 「Hongtu (Seychelles)」）之已發行股
of the Company beneficially owned by Hongtu (Seychelles) by virtue of its shareholding of 份100%。因此，宏圖（香港）因持有Hongtu
Hongtu (Seychelles). (Seychelles)之股權而被視為擁有Hongtu
(Seychelles)實益擁有的本公司556,898,770股
股份之權益。
(4) The letter “L” denotes the shareholder’s long position in the shares. (4) 「L」代表股東在此等股份中所持之好倉。
Save as disclosed above, the Company had not been notified by any person (other than 除上文所披露者外，於二零二一年十二月
the Directors or chief executives of the Company) who had interests or short positions 三十一日，本公司並無接獲任何人士（本公司
in the shares and underlying shares of the Company as at 31 December 2021 which 董事或行政總裁除外）知會，彼於本公司之股
were required to be disclosed to the Company under Part XV of the SFO or which were 份及相關股份中，擁有根據證券及期貨條例
recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under section 336 of the 第XV部須向本公司披露或本公司根據證券及
SFO. 期貨條例第336條須予備存之登記冊所記錄之
權益或淡倉。
Annual Report 2021 年報 83IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES, OPTIONS, WARRANTS OR SIMILAR RIGHTS 可轉換證券、購股權、認股權證或類似
權利
The Company had no outstanding convertible securities, options, warrants or similar rights 本公司於二零二一年十二月三十一日概無任
at 31 December 2021. 何尚未行使之可轉換證券、購股權、認股權
證或類似權利。
There was no issue or exercise of any convertible securities, options, warrants or similar 於二零二一年年度，本公司並無任何可轉換
rights of the Company during FY2021. 證券、購股權、認股權證或類似權利獲發行
或行使。
REMUNERATION POLICY 薪酬政策
Details of the Group’s remuneration policy are set out in the section of “Management 本集團之薪酬政策詳情載於本年報之「管理層
Discussion and Analysis” contained in this annual report. 討論及分析」一節。
MODEL CODE FOR SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS 證券交易之標準守則
The Company has adopted its own Code of Conduct for Securities Transactions by 本公司已採納其自有董事證券交易之行為守
Directors (the “Code of Conduct for Securities Transactions”). This is on terms no less 則（「證券交易之行為守則」），其條款與上市
exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code as set out in Appendix 10 規則附錄十所載之標準守則所規定之交易標
to the Listing Rules, and has been updated from time to time. 準同樣嚴謹，且不時更新。
Having made specific enquiries to all Directors, all Directors confirmed that they had 向全體董事作出特定查詢後，全體董事確認
complied with the required standards set out in the Model Code and the Code of 彼等已於整個二零二一年年度遵守標準守則
Conduct for Securities Transactions throughout FY2021. 及證券交易之行為守則所載之標準。
The Board members have been reminded of their obligation to comply with the Model 董事會成員獲提醒其有義務遵守標準守則及
Code and the Code of Conduct for Securities Transactions. 證券交易之行為守則。
84 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 企業管治
The Group’s corporate governance principles and practices are set out in the Corporate 有關本集團之企業管治原則及常規已列載於
Governance Report contained in this annual report. 本年報之企業管治報告書內。
PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF THE COMPANY’S LISTED 購買、出售或贖回本公司之上市證券
SECURITIES
During FY2021, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries purchased, sold or 於二零二一年年度，本公司或其任何附屬公
redeemed any of the Company’s listed securities. 司概無購買、出售或贖回本公司任何上市證
券。
PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS 優先購買權
There are no provisions for pre-emptive rights under the Company’s Bye-Laws or the laws 本公司章程細則或百慕達法例並無有關本公
of Bermuda which would oblige the Company to offer new shares on a pro-rata basis to 司須按比例向現有股東發售新股份之優先購
existing shareholders. 買權之規定。
SUFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC FLOAT 足夠公眾持股量
Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the 於本報告書之日期，根據本公司獲得之公開
knowledge of the Directors as at the date of this report, the Company has maintained 資料及就董事所知悉，本公司於整個二零
sufficient public float throughout FY2021 as required under the Listing Rules. 二一年年度內已維持上市規則所規定之足夠
公眾持股量。
AUDITOR 核數師
Mazars CPA Limited (the “Auditor” or Mazars”) was appointed as auditors of the 中審眾環（香港）會計師事務所有限公司（「核
Company with effect from 27 September 2019 to fill vacancy and was re-elected in the 數師」或「中審眾環」）自二零一九年九月
AGMs of the Company held on 24 July 2020 and 25 June 2021 and will be subject to re- 二十七日起獲委任為本公司核數師以填補空
appointment in the forthcoming AGM. 缺，並於本公司於二零二零年七月二十四日
及二零二一年六月二十五日舉行的股東週年
大會上獲重選為本公司核數師，且將於應屆
股東週年大會上獲續聘。
Annual Report 2021 年報 85IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 審閱財務報表
The Company has established an AC for the purposes of reviewing and providing 本公司已成立審核委員會，以審閱及監察本
supervision over the financial reporting process and internal controls of the Group. As at 集團之財務申報程序及內部監控。於二零
31 December 2021, the AC comprises all three Independent Non-Executive Directors of 二一年十二月三十一日，審核委員會由本公
the Company. 司全體三名獨立非執行董事組成。
The audited financial results of the Group for FY2021 have been reviewed by the AC. 本集團於二零二一年年度的經審核財務業績
已經審核委員會審閱。
THE BOARD’S RESPONSE TO THE AUDITOR’S OPINION 董事會對核數師意見之回覆
Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 不發表意見之基準
The auditor of the Company, being Mazars, issued a disclaimer of opinion (the “Disclaimer 本公司核數師中審眾環，就本公司於二零
of Opinion”) on the financial statements of the Company for FY2021 in relation to going 二一年年度之財務報表出具不發表意見（「不
concern of the Company, details of which are set out in note 2 to the consolidated 發表意見」），內容有關本公司之持續經營，
financial statements contained in this annual report. 其詳細資料載於本年報綜合財務報表附註2。
With respect to the Disclaimer of Opinion, the Directors are of the opinion that the 就不發表意見而言，經計及本年報綜合財務
Group will have sufficient working capital to finance its operations and to meet its financial 報表附註2所載措施（「措施」），董事認為本集
obligations for at least the next 12 months from the date of approval of the consolidated 團將擁有充足營運資金撥付其經營及履行綜
financial statements, after taking into consideration of the measures (the “Measures”) set 合財務報表批准日期起至少十二個月的財務
out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 責任。
However, as stated in the independent auditor’s report contained in this annual report, 然而，如本年報獨立核數師報告所載，核數
the Auditor is of the view that it has not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate 師認為就於編製綜合財務報表時使用持續經
audit evidence regarding the use of going concern assumption in the preparation of the 營假設而言尚無法取得充分適當審計證據。
consolidated financial statements.
86 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
Board’s Response to “Disclaimer of Opinion – Going Concern” 董事會對「不發表意見－持續經營」之回覆
The board (the “Board”) of Directors would like to provide certain additional and update 董事會（「董事會」）希望就不發表意見提供若
information in relation to the Disclaimer of Opinion: 干補充及更新資料：
1. China Huaneng Foundation Construction Investment Limited (“Huaneng”), the 1. 本公司最大股東中國華能基礎建設投資
largest shareholder of the Company and its substantial shareholder, have committed 有限公司（「華能」）及其主要股東已承諾
and have proved their ability to provide continuous financial support to the Group as 並證明其有能力於必要時為本集團提供
is necessary to enable the Group to meet its day-to-day operations and its financial 持續財務支持，以使本集團能夠進行日
obligations as they fall due. 常營運及履行到期的財務責任。
With respect to this, the Board and the AC are satisfied that Huaneng has the 就此而言，董事會及審核委員會確信，
financial ability to provide financial support to the Company to enable it to meet its 華能有財務能力向本公司提供財務支
financial obligations as and when they fall due on the following basis: 持，使其能夠按以下方式履行其到期的
財務責任：
While the net current liabilities of the Group amounted to approximately HK$252.4 儘管本集團截至二零二一年十二月
million as of 31 December 2021, it should be noted that it included, among others, 三十一日的流動負債淨額約為港幣252.4
a loan from a shareholder (i.e. Huaneng) which was classified as current liabilities 百萬元，但應注意的是，其中包括（其
amounted to HK$203.7 million. Accordingly, the net current liabilities of the Group, 中包括）被歸類為流動負債的股東（即華
if the loan from Huaneng is disregarded, would be mitigated to a lesser amount of 能）貸款港幣203.7百萬元。因此，倘不
approximately HK$48.7 million. 考慮華能的貸款，本集團的流動負債淨
額將減少至約港幣48.7百萬元。
Annual Report 2021 年報 87IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
2. Huaneng has undertaken that the repayment of its loan to the Group of 2. 華能承諾，自綜合財務報表批准之日起
approximately HK$203.7 million as at 31 December 2021 will not be requested 十二個月內，將不會要求於二零二一年
within twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial 十二月三十一日償還其向本集團的貸款
statements, unless the Group has obtained funding from other sources and is in a 約港幣203.7百萬元，除非本集團已自其
position to meet all repayment obligations at that time. 他來源獲得融資且當時能夠履行所有還
款責任。
With respect to this, the Board understood the Auditor’s concern that Huaneng’s 就此而言，董事會理解核數師的擔憂，
advance to the Company may still be repayable upon demand. However, the Board 即華能向本公司墊付的款項仍可應要求
considers that Huaneng, as the largest shareholder of the Company, will comply 償還。然而，董事會認為，華能作為本
with its undertaking and will not demand for repayment in breach of its undertaking 公司的最大股東，將遵守其承諾，不會
for the following reasons: 因下列原因違反承諾而要求償還款項：
(a) Huaneng has demonstrated its commitment to provide financial support and (a) 華能已表明提供財務支持的承
provided loan to the Company in the amount of HK$121.5 million in 2020 諾，並於二零二零年及二零二一
and HK$203.7 million in 2021. As such, the loan provided to the Company 年分別向本公司提供貸款港幣
by Huaneng was not a random one, but a commitment to the long-term 121.5百萬元及港幣203.7百萬元。
development of the Group by and as a substantial shareholder. 因此，華能向本公司提供的貸款
並非隨機提供，而是由一名主要
股東及作為一名主要股東對本集
團長遠發展的承諾。
(b) Huaneng, as the largest shareholder, would not be incentivised to demand (b) 除非本集團已自其他來源獲得融
repayment from Company unless the Group has obtained funding from other 資且當時能夠履行所有還款責
sources and is in a position to meet all repayment obligations at that time. 任，否則華能作為最大的股東將
不會受利益驅使而要求本公司還
款。
88 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
3. The Group continues to improve the operating efficiency by implementing measures 3. 為增強其盈利能力並提高其未來經營活
to tighten cost controls over various operating expenses in order to enhance its 動現金流量，本集團將繼續透過採取措
profitability and to improve the cash flow from its operation in future. 施加強對各種經營開支之成本控制而提
高經營效率。
With respect to this, the Board understood the Auditor’s concern on the efficiency 就此而言，董事會理解核數師對成本控
of cost control measures. However, the Board is optimistic that such cost control 制措施有效性之擔憂。然而，董事會對
measures would be effective. The Board would like to draw the shareholders’ 該等成本控制措施將屬有效保持樂觀。
attention to the following: 董事會將就以下事項敦請股東注意：
(a) The Board has appointed a team, which is led by the chief executive officer of (a) 董事會已委任一個團隊（其由本
the Company, to monitor the daily cashflow so as to ensure the Group has 公司行政總裁領導）監控日常現
sufficient financial resources to settle the Group’s financial obligation when fall 金流量，從而確保本集團有足夠
due. 的財務資源以結清本集團的到期
財務責任。
(b) The Group’s cost control measure has shown positive impact in 2021. (b) 本集團的成本控制措施已於二零
For example, general administrative expenses for FY2021 had reduced by 二一年顯示出積極影響。舉例而
approximately 7.9%. 言，一般行政開支於二零二一年
年度已減少約7.9%。
(c) The costs control measures already implemented by the Group since 2019 (c) 本集團已自二零一九年起實施成
is expected to continue in 2022, which will include, without limitation, 本控制措施，其預期將於二零
improving the efficiency on the supply chain of the Group, with a view to 二二年繼續實施。該等措施將包
enhance the profitability and improve the cash flow of the Group. 括（但不限於）提高本集團供應鏈
效率以及增強本集團的盈利能力
及提升現金流量。
Annual Report 2021 年報 89IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
4. The Group continues to negotiate with/seek opportunities from financial institutions 4. 本集團就重續現有╱開始新融資安排繼
for the renewal of existing/inception of the new financing arrangement to meet the 續與融資機構進行磋商╱向融資機構尋
Group’s working capital and financial requirements in the future. 求機會，從而達致本集團未來營運資金
及財務要求。
5. The Group is actively exploring the availability of alternative source of financing. 5. 本集團正積極探討其他融資來源。
With respect to this, the Board understood the Auditor’s concern that there is no 就此而言，董事會理解核數師關於並無
definite legal agreement for securing alternative source of financing. However, the 確切法律協議以確保其他融資來源之擔
Board will make endeavours to seek financing and is negotiating to seek bank loans 憂。然而，董事會將致力於尋求融資且
and possibly equity financing by issuing shares for cash. 正協商尋求銀行貸款及通過發行股份獲
取現金以獲得可能的股本融資。
6. The documents/information requested by the Auditor to assess the ability of the 6. 核數師所要求的用於評估本公司持續經
Company to continue as going concern are: (1) a cashflow forecast of the Group; 營能力的文件╱資料為：(1)本集團現金
and (2) a letter of undertaking signed by Huaneng and Mr. Zhu. 流量預測；及(2)華能及朱先生簽署的承
諾函。
The Action Plan of the Group 本集團的行動計劃
It is the plan of the Board to continue the Measures above in the year ending 31 截至二零二二年十二月三十一日止年度，董
December 2022. Moreover, subsequent to FY2021, the following action plans have been 事會計劃將繼續進行上述措施。此外，於二
implemented to further improve the financial situation and cashflow of the Group: 零二一年年度後，本集團已實施下列行動計
劃，以進一步改善其財務狀況及現金流量：
1. Provision of shareholder’s loan 1. 提供股東貸款
Provision of further loan capital by Huaneng to the Group continued as Huaneng 華能繼續向本集團提供進一步貸款資
had further made net advancements in the sum of approximately RMB13.0 million to 本，原因為華能於二零二二年四月向本
the Group in April 2022. It is expected that Huaneng, being the largest shareholder 集團進一步作出墊款淨額約人民幣13.0
of the Company, will continue to provide financial support from time to time to the 百萬元。預期本公司最大股東華能將不
Group. 時繼續向本集團提供財務支持。
2. Cost control measures 2. 成本控制措施
From the end of FY2021 till the date of this annual report, the Company has 二零二一年年度末至本年報日期，本公
strictly controlled its selling and administrative expenses such as by closing local and 司已通過關閉當地及境外暫無營業公司
overseas dormant companies for saving administrative costs of the Group. 等措施嚴格其控制其銷售及行政開支，
以節省本集團行政成本。
90 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
3. Marketing campaigns 3. 營銷活動
The management noted that the customers of the Group are still loyal to the 管理層注意到，本集團之客戶仍熱衷於
brands of the Group, and hence believes that there will be a significant growth in 本集團的品牌，因此，管理層相信一旦
the Company’s business once the economic activities go back to normal levels. A 經濟活動恢復正常，本公司之業務將會
series of marketing campaigns will be launched to acquire new customers and bring 有顯著增長。我們將開展一系列營銷活
back previous customers of the Group, plus the launch of the new products of the 動以吸引新客戶及本集團的老客戶，此
Group which will be focused on wearable technologies in healthcare such as health 外，將推出本集團的新產品，該等新產
tracking smartwatches and smartwatches for cycling. The Group is in the course of 品將專注於醫療保健的可穿戴技術，如
implementing the above measures and will continue to do so in the remainder of 健康追蹤智能手錶及騎行智能手錶。本
the year 2022. 集團正在實施上述措施，並將於二零
二二年餘下時間繼續實施。
The Directors had reviewed the Group’s cash flow projections prepared by the 董事已審閱管理層編製的本集團自二零
management that covered a period of not less than 12 months from 31 May 2022, 二二年五月三十一日（即批准本年報之
being the date of approving this annual report. Having taken into account the 日）起不少於12個月期間的現金流量預
above-mentioned plans and measures, the Directors were of the opinion that the 測。經考慮上述計劃及措施，董事認
Group would have sufficient working capital to finance its operations and to meet 為，本集團將擁有充足的營運資金為其
its financial obligations as and when they fall due within the next twelve months 營運提供資金及履行自綜合財務狀況表
from the date of the consolidated statement of financial position. Accordingly, the 日期起未來12個月內到期之財務責任。
consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 因此，綜合財務報表乃按持續經營基準
編製。
The Directors have explained the above plans to the Auditor that the Group is able 董事已向核數師解釋上述計劃並表示，
to operate as a going concern and will be able to have sufficient working capital in 本集團有能力持續經營，且經考慮本年
the next twelve months from 31 May 2022 after taking into consideration of the 報綜合財務報表附註2所載因素，本集
factors in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual 團於自二零二二年五月三十一日起計未
report. 來12個月可擁有充足的營運資金。
Despite the evidences and explanations provided to Auditor in relation to the 儘管已向核數師提供本集團持續經營能
Group’s ability of going concern, Auditor still regarded that due to the uncertainty of 力的證據並作出解釋，核數師仍認為，
the Group’s ability to maintain adequate future cash flows, it was unable to ascertain 由於本集團未來維持充足現金流量的能
whether the assumptions made by the Directors in preparing the consolidated 力存在不確定性，其無法確定董事於按
financial statements on a going concern basis were proper and appropriate. 持續經營基準編製綜合財務報表時作出
的假設是否妥當及適當。
Annual Report 2021 年報 91IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Directors’ Report
董事會報告書
The Directors have used their best endeavour to provide information and has 董事已竭盡所能向核數師提供資料及解
explained the situation of the Group to Auditor. In view of the financial performance 釋本集團的情況。鑒於本集團於二零
of the Group in FY2021 and the uncertainty of macroeconomic environment in 二一年年度的財務表現以及COVID-19
2022 due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the Directors understood the view of the 疫情導致二零二二年宏觀經濟環境存在
Auditor. 不確定性，董事理解核數師的意見。
The audit committee of the Board (the “Audit Committee”) understands the audit 董事會審核委員會（「審核委員會」）理解
modification on going concern raised by Auditor and has discussed it with the 核數師提出的有關持續經營的審核修
Management and Auditor. The Audit Committee shared the same view with the 訂，並已與管理層及核數師進行討論。
Management. 審核委員會與管理層持相同意見。
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 報告期後事項
Details of the events after the reporting period are set out in note 36 to the consolidated 報告期後事項之詳情載於本年報之綜合財務
financial statements contained in this annual report. 報表附註36。
PERMITTED PROVISION 獲批准的條文
Pursuant to the Company’s Bye-laws, every Director shall be entitled to be indemnified out 根據本公司章程細則，各董事均有權因其作
of the assets of the Company against all losses or liabilities incurred or sustained by him as 為董事而就其產生或蒙受的一切虧損或負債
a Director. 自本公司資產中獲得補償。
On behalf of the Board 代表董事會
Zhu Yongning 朱永寧
Executive Director (Chief Executive Officer) 執行董事（行政總裁）
31 May 2022 二零二二年五月三十一日
Hong Kong 香港
92 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Independent Auditor’s Report
獨立核數師報告
MAZARS CPA LIMITED
中審眾環（香港）會計師事務所有限公司42nd
Floor, Central Plaza
18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong
香港灣仔港灣道18號中環廣場42樓Tel
電話：(852) 2909 5555
Fax 傳真：(852) 2810 0032
Email 電郵：info@mazars.hk
Website 網址：www.mazars.hk
TO THE MEMBERS OF IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 致：萬威國際有限公司全體股東
(incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability) （於百慕達註冊成立之有限公司）
DISCLAIMER OF OPINION 不發表意見
We were engaged to audit the consolidated financial statements of IDT International 我們受聘審計列載於第96頁至203頁的萬威國
Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) set out on pages 96 際有限公司（「貴公司」）及其附屬公司（統稱
to 203, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 「貴集團」）的綜合財務報表，此等財務報表包
2021, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, 括於二零二一年十二月三十一日的綜合財務
the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash 狀況表與截至該日止年度的綜合損益及其他
flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including 全面收益表、綜合權益變動表和綜合現金流
a summary of significant accounting policies. 量表，以及綜合財務報表附註，包括主要會
計政策概要。
We do not express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 我們對 貴集團之綜合財務報表不發表意
Because of the significance of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 見。由於我們報告中不發表意見之基準一節
section of our report, we have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 內所述事項之重要性，我們並未能夠取得充
evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements. 足適當審計憑據以就該等綜合財務報表發表
In all other respects, in our opinion the consolidated financial statements have been 之審計意見提供基準。在所有其他方面，我
properly prepared in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong 們認為綜合財務報表已根據香港公司條例之
Companies Ordinance. 披露規定妥為編製。
BASIS FOR DISCLAIMER OF OPINION 不發表意見之基準
Material uncertainty related to going concern 有關持續經營之重大不明朗因素
As described in the “Going concern” section in note 2 to the consolidated financial 誠如綜合財務報表附註2「持續經營」一節所
statements, the Group reported a loss attributable to the owners of the Company 述， 貴集團匯報截至二零二一年十二月
of approximately HK$84.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2021 and, at 31 三十一日止年度 貴公司擁有人應佔虧損約
December 2021, the Group had net current liabilities and net liabilities of approximately 港幣84.2百萬元，且 貴集團於二零二一年
HK$252.4 million and approximately HK$305.6 million, respectively. 十二月三十一日流動負債淨額及負債淨額分
別約港幣252.4百萬元及約港幣305.6百萬元。
Subsequent to the reporting period, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the Group’s 於報告期後， 貴集團營運受COVID-19疫情
operation to the extent that the production of the Group’s factory in Shenzhen was 影響，以致 貴集團位於深圳的工廠自二零
temporarily suspended with effect from 5 March 2022 until further notice (as disclosed in 二二年三月五日起暫時停產，直至另行通知
the Company’s announcement dated 7 March 2022). 為止（如 貴公司日期為二零二二年三月七日
之公佈所披露）。
Annual Report 2021 年報 93IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Independent Auditor’s Report
獨立核數師報告
These events and conditions, along with other matters as set forth in the “Going concern” 此等事件及情況（連同綜合財務報表附註2「持
section in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, indicate that the existence of 續經營」一節所載列之其他事項）顯示存有重
a material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue 大不明朗因素，可能對 貴集團持續經營能
as a going concern, and, therefore, that the Group may be unable to realise its assets and 力構成重大疑問，故 貴集團可能無法於日
discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. 常業務過程中變現資產及償還負債。
The validity of the going concern assumption is dependent on the successful and 持續經營假設的有效性取決於綜合財務報表
favourable outcomes of the measures being taken by the management of the Group and 附註2「持續經營」一節所述 貴集團管理層採
the development of the events as described in the “Going concern” section in note 2 to 取措施能否達到成功及利好之成果以及事態
the consolidated financial statements. The management of the Group is of the opinion 發展。 貴集團管理層認為 貴集團將有能
that the Group would be able to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the consolidated 力持續經營。因此，綜合財務報表乃按持續
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, and do not include any 經營基礎編製，而並無包括倘 貴集團未能
adjustments relating to the recognition of provisions or the realisation and reclassification of 持續經營時可能需要就有關確認撥備或變現
non-current assets and non-current liabilities that may be necessary if the Group is unable 及重新分類非流動資產及非流動負債作出之
to continue as a going concern. 任何調整。
We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the use of going 我們未能就於編製綜合財務報表時使用持續
concern assumption in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Should 經營假設獲得充分而適當的審計憑證。倘持
the going concern assumption be inappropriate, adjustments may have to be made to 續經營假設不適用，可能須作出調整，以反
reflect the situation that assets may need to be realised at the amounts other than that 映資產可能需要按現時於二零二一年十二月
are currently recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 三十一日的綜合財務狀況表所記錄以外金額
2021. 變現的情況。
In addition, the Group may have to recognise further liabilities that might arise, and to 此外， 貴集團亦可能需要確認可能產生的額
reclassify non-current assets and non-current liabilities as current assets and current 外負債，並分別將非流動資產及非流動負債
liabilities, respectively. 重新分類為流動資產及流動負債。
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND THOSE CHARGED WITH 董事及治理層就綜合財務報表須承擔的
GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 責任
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial 貴公司董事須負責根據香港會計師公會（「香
statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting 港會計師公會」）頒佈的香港財務報告準則及
Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the “HKICPA”) 香港公司條例的披露要求擬備真實而中肯的
and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such 綜合財務報表，並對其認為為使綜合財務報
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of 表的擬備不存在由於欺詐或錯誤而導致的重
consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 大錯誤陳述所需的內部控制負責。
fraud or error.
94 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Independent Auditor’s Report
獨立核數師報告
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors of the Company are 在擬備綜合財務報表時， 貴公司董事負責評
responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 估 貴集團持續經營的能力，並在適用情況
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 下披露與持續經營有關的事項，以及使用持
accounting unless the directors of the Company either intend to liquidate the Group or to 續經營為會計基礎，除非 貴公司董事有意
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 將 貴集團清盤或停止經營，或別無其他實
際的替代方案。
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial 治理層須負責監督 貴集團的財務報告過程。
reporting process.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED 核數師就審計綜合財務報表承擔的責任
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our responsibility is to conduct an audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 我們的責任是根據香港會計師公會頒布的《香
in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the HKICPA and to issue 港審計準則》對 貴集團的綜合財務報表進
an auditor’s report. However, because of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 行審計，並出具核數師報告。然而，由於我
of Opinion section of our report, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 們的報告中不發表意見之基準一節所述之事
evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements. 項，我們未能獲取充足、適當的審計憑證，
以便為該等綜合財務報表提供審計意見的基
礎。
This report is made solely to you, as a body, in accordance with section 90 of Bermuda 此報告根據百慕達公司法例第90條僅向 閣
Companies Act and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or 下（作為整體）作出，除此之外本報告別無其
accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report. 他目的。我們不會就本報告的內容向任何其
他人士負上或承擔任何責任。
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics 根據香港會計師公會頒佈的專業會計師道德
for Professional Accountants (the “Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical 守則（「守則」），我們獨立於 貴集團，並已
responsibilities in accordance with the Code. 履行我們於守則下的其他道德責任。
Mazars CPA Limited 中審眾環（香港）會計師事務所有限公司
Certified Public Accountants 執業會計師
Hong Kong, 31 May 2022 香港，二零二二年五月三十一日
The engagement director on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is: 出具本獨立核數師報告的審計項目董事是：
She Shing Pang 佘勝鵬
Practising Certificate number: P05510 執業證書編號：P05510
Annual Report 2021 年報 95IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
綜合損益及其他全面收益表
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
NOTES 2021 2020
附註 二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Revenue 收益 6 17.1 55.4
Cost of goods sold 銷 售成本 (15.3) (49.8)
Gross profit 毛利 1.8 5.6
Other income 其他收入 7 6.6 16.2
Other losses, net 其他虧損，淨額 7 (0.6) (4.7)
Charge of loss allowance on financial assets 扣除金融資產虧損撥備 8 (8.7) (18.2)
Research expenses 研究開支 (13.8) (27.3)
Distribution and selling expenses 分銷及銷售開支 (5.4) (14.7)
General administrative expenses 一般行政開支 (45.6) (49.5)
Losses from impairment 減值虧損 9 (11.8) –
Finance costs 融 資成本 9 (6.7) (3.2)
Loss before taxation 除稅前虧損 9 (84.2) (95.8)
Taxation 稅 項 12 – –
Loss for the year 本年度虧損 (84.2) (95.8)
Other comprehensive loss: 其他全面虧損：
Item that may be reclassified subsequently 其後可能會重新分類至損益賬的
to profit or loss: 項目：
Exchange differences arising on translation of 換算海外業務產生的匯兌差額
foreign operations (0.1) (0.4)
Total comprehensive loss for the year 本 年度全面虧損總額 (84.3) (96.2)
Loss for the year attributable to: 以下各項應佔本年度虧損：
– Owners of the Company －本公司擁有人 (84.2) (95.8)
– Non-controlling interests － 非控股權益 – –
(84.2) (95.8)
Total comprehensive loss for the year 以下各項應佔本年度全面虧損
attributable to: 總額：
– Owners of the Company －本公司擁有人 (84.3) (96.2)
– Non-controlling interests － 非控股權益 – –
(84.3) (96.2)
Loss per share 每股虧損
– Basic and diluted (HK cents) － 基本及攤薄（港仙） 13 (3.24) (3.68)
96 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
綜合財務狀況表
At 31 December 2021
於二零二一年十二月三十一日
NOTES 2021 2020
附註 二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Non-current assets 非流動資產
Property, plant and equipment 物業、機器及設備 14 1.5 4.0
Investment properties 投資物業 15 0.6 3.1
Right-of-use assets 使用權資產 16 5.6 29.2
Finance lease receivables 融資租賃應收款項 17 – 13.8
Goodwill 商譽 18 – –
Rental deposits 租金按金 3.4 3.4
11.1 53.5
Current assets 流動資產
Inventories 存貨 19 5.2 7.1
Trade and other receivables 應收賬款及其他應收款項 20 6.9 6.3
Finance lease receivables 融資租賃應收款項 17 5.2 11.7
Restricted bank balances 受限制銀行結餘 21 3.4 3.7
Cash and cash equivalents 現金及等同現金項目 21 49.5 9.4
70.2 38.2
Current liabilities 流動負債
Trade and other payables 應付賬款及其他應付款項 22 61.8 58.5
Borrowings 借款 25 9.3 –
Lease liabilities 租賃負債 16 27.1 26.8
Tax payable 應付稅款 12 12.0 12.9
Contract liabilities 合約負債 23 8.7 18.7
Loan from a shareholder 股東貸款 24 203.7 121.5
322.6 238.4
Net current liabilities 流 動負債淨值 (252.4) (200.2)
Non-current liabilities 非流動負債
Lease liabilities 租賃負債 16 15.6 29.8
Borrowings 借款 25 48.7 44.8
64.3 74.6
NET LIABILITIES 負 債淨值 (305.6) (221.3)
Annual Report 2021 年報 97IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
綜合財務狀況表
At 31 December 2021
於二零二一年十二月三十一日
NOTE 2021 2020
附註 二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Capital and reserves 股本及儲備
Share capital 股本 26 260.0 260.0
Reserves 儲備 (565.7) (481.4)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 本公司擁有人應佔權益 (305.7) (221.4)
Non-controlling interests 非 控股權益 0.1 0.1
NET DEFICIT 虧 絀淨額 (305.6) (221.3)
The consolidated financial statements on pages 96 to 203 were approved and authorised 第96頁至第203頁之綜合財務報表已於二零
for issue by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2022 and signed on its behalf by: 二二年五月三十一日獲董事會批准及授權發
行，並由下列人士代表簽署：
Zhu Yongning Zhou Rui 朱永寧 周銳
Director Director 董事 董事
98 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
綜合權益變動表
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
Attributable to owners of the Company
本公司擁有人所佔
Non-
Share Share Other Translation Accumulated controlling
capital premium reserve reserve losses Sub-total interests Total
貨幣換算 非控股
股本 股份溢價 其他儲備 儲備 累計虧損 小計 權益 總計
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
(Note (a)) (Note (b)) (Note (c))
（附註(a)） （附註(b)） （附註(c)）
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 260.0 165.0 32.5 (101.8) (480.9) (125.2) 0.1 (125.1)
Loss for the year 本年度虧損 – – – – (95.8) (95.8) – (95.8)
Other comprehensive loss: 其他全面虧損：
Exchange differences arising on 換算海外業務產生的匯兌差額
translation of foreign operations – – – (0.4) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Total comprehensive loss 本年度全面虧損總額
for the year – – – (0.4) (95.8) (96.2) – (96.2)
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月三十一日 260.0 165.0 32.5 (102.2) (576.7) (221.4) 0.1 (221.3)
At 1 January 2021 於二零二一年一月一日 260. 0 165. 0 32. 5 (102. 2) (576. 7) (221. 4) 0. 1 (221. 3)
L oss for the year 本年度虧損 – – – – (84. 2) (84. 2) – (84. 2)
Other comprehensive loss: 其他全面虧損：
Exchange differences arising on 換算海外業務產生的匯兌差額
translation of foreign operations – – – (0. 1) – (0. 1) – (0. 1)
Total comprehensive loss 本年度全面虧損總額
for the year – – – (0. 1) (84. 2) (84. 3) – (84. 3)
A t 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日 260. 0 165. 0 32. 5 (102. 3) (660. 9) (305. 7) 0. 1 (305. 6)
Notes: 附註：
(a) The application of share premium is governed by Section 40 of the Bermuda Companies Act (a) 股份溢價之應用受百慕達一九八一年《公司
1981. 法》第40條規管。
(b) Other reserve has been set up and is dealt with in accordance with the accounting policies (b) 其他儲備乃根據對本集團於附屬公司之所有
adopted for changes in the Group’s ownership interest in its subsidiaries which do not result 權權益變動而並不導致失去控制權所採納之
in a loss of control as set out in “Basis of consolidation” under note 4 to the consolidated 會計政策（如綜合財務報表附註4下「綜合基
financial statements. 準」所載列）設立及處理。
(c) Translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of (c) 貨幣換算儲備包括換算海外業務財務報表產
the financial statements of foreign operations. 生之所有匯兌差額。
Annual Report 2021 年報 99IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
綜合現金流量表
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
OPERATING ACTIVITIES 經營活動
Loss before taxation 除稅前虧損 (84.2) (95.8)
Adjustments for: 調整：
Finance costs 融資成本 6.7 3.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 物業、機器及設備折舊 2.5 8.1
Depreciation of investment properties 投資物業折舊 1.5 0.1
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 使用權資產折舊 14.7 7.3
Gain on derecognition of right-of-use assets 終止確認與總租賃有關的使用權
relating to the head leases 資產的收益 – (1.3)
Charge of loss allowance on financial assets 扣除金融資產虧損撥備 8.7 18.2
(Reversal of write-down) Write-down of inventories 存貨（撇減撥回）撇減 (1.9) 4.5
Provision for losses on litigations 訴訟虧損撥備 1.5 3.3
Losses from impairment 減值虧損 11.8 –
Exchange differences 匯兌差額 0.1 2.8
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 營運資金變動前之經營現金流量 (38.6) (49.6)
Decrease in inventories 存貨減少 3.8 5.2
Decrease in finance lease receivables 融資租賃應收款項減少 11.7 0.8
(Increase) Decrease in trade and other receivables 應收賬款及其他應收款項（增加）減少 (2.6) 22.6
Decrease (Increase) in restricted bank balances 受限制銀行結餘減少（增加） 0.3 (3.7)
Decrease in trade and other payables 應付賬款及其他應付款項減少 (8.3) (23.5)
Increase (Decrease) in contract liabilities 合約負債增加（減少） 0.1 (4.6)
Cash used in operations and net cash used in 營運所用現金及經營活動所用現金
operating activities 淨額 (33.6) (52.8)
100 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
綜合現金流量表
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
INVESTING ACTIVITY 投資活動
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 購置物業、機器及設備 – (0.3)
Net cash used in investing activity 投資活動所用現金淨額 – (0.3)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES 融資活動
Proceeds of loan from a shareholder 股東貸款所得款項 82.2 52.5
Proceeds from borrowings 借款所得款項 9.3 –
Repayment of lease liabilities 償還租賃負債 (17.7) (8.9)
Net cash from financing activities 融資活動所得現金淨額 73.8 43.6
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 現金及等同現金項目之增加（減少）
淨額 40.2 (9.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 年初之現金及等同現金項目 9.4 18.0
Effects of foreign exchange rate changes 外匯匯率變動影響 (0.1) 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 年終之現金及等同現金項目 49.5 9.4
Annual Report 2021 年報 101IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
1. GENERAL INFORMATION 1. 一般事項
IDT International Limited (the “Company”, together with its subsidiaries are 萬威國際有限公司（「本公司」，連同其
collectively referred to as the “Group”), was incorporated in Bermuda as an 附屬公司統稱「本集團」）乃於百慕達註
exempted company with limited liability. The shares of the Company are listed 冊成立之獲豁免有限公司，其股份在香
on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock 港聯合交易所有限公司（「聯交所」）主板
Exchange”). The addresses of the registered office and principal place of business of 上市。本公司註冊辦事處及主要營業地
the Company is located at Block C, 9th Floor, Phase 1, Kaiser Estate, 41 Man Yue 點位於香港九龍紅磡民裕街41號凱旋工
Street, Hunghom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 商中心1期9樓C座。
The Company acts as an investment holding company while its subsidiaries are 本公司乃一間投資控股公司。各附屬公
principally engaged in the design, development, manufacture, sales and marketing of 司之主要業務為設計、開發、製造、銷
various consumer electronic products. 售及推廣多種電子消費產品。
2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 2. 呈列基準
Basis of preparation 編製基準
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong 本綜合財務報表已根據香港會計師公會
Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”), which collective term includes （「香港會計師公會」）頒佈之香港財務報
all applicable Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards, Hong Kong Accounting 告準則（「香港財務報告準則」，包括所
Standards (“HKASs”) and Interpretations issued by the Hong Kong Institute of 有適用香港財務報告準則、香港會計準
Certified Public Accountants (the “HKICPA”), accounting principles generally 則（「香港會計準則」）及詮釋）、香港公
accepted in Hong Kong and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong 認會計原則及香港《公司條例》之披露規
Companies Ordinance. The consolidated financial statements also comply with 定編製。本綜合財務報表亦遵守聯交所
the applicable disclosure requirements under the Rules Governing the Listing of 證券上市規則（「上市規則」）之適用披露
Securities on the Stock Exchange (the “Listing Rules”). 規定。
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Hong Kong dollars (“HK$”) 本綜合財務報表以本公司之功能貨幣港
which is the same as the functional currency of the Company. All amounts have 幣（「港幣」）呈列。所有金額均已四舍五
been rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. 入至最接近十萬位數。
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent 本綜合財務報表以與二零二零年綜合財
with the accounting policies adopted in the 2020 consolidated financial statements 務報表所採用之會計政策一致基準編
except for the adoption of the new/revised HKFRSs that are relevant to the Group 製，惟採用本綜合財務報表附註3所載
and effective from the current year as set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial 列對本集團相關且於本年度起生效之新
statements. 訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準則除外。
A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group is set out in 有關本集團所採用之主要會計政策載列
note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 於本綜合財務報表附註4。
102 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 2. 呈列基準（續）
Going concern 持續經營
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors of the Company 鑒於於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本
have given careful consideration to the future liquidity of the Group in light of the 集團的流動負債超出其流動資產約港幣
fact that the Group’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by approximately 252.4百萬元、截至該日本集團的總負債
HK$252.4 million at 31 December 2021, the Group’s total liabilities exceeded its 超出總資產約港幣305.6百萬元及本集團
total assets by approximately HK$305.6 million as of that date, and that the Group 截至該日止年度產生虧損約港幣84.2百
incurred a loss of approximately HK$84.2 million for the year then ended. 萬元，故在擬備綜合財務報表時，本公
司董事已仔細考慮本集團的未來資金流
動。
Subsequent to the reporting period, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the 於報告期後，本集團營運受COVID-19
Group’s operation to the extent that the production of the Group’s factory in 疫情影響，以致本集團位於深圳的工廠
Shenzhen was temporarily suspended with effect from 5 March 2022 until further 自二零二二年三月五日起暫時停產，直
notice (as disclosed in the Company’s announcement dated 7 March 2022). 至另行通知為止（如本公司日期為二零
二二年三月七日之公佈所披露）。
These events and conditions indicate that the existence of a material uncertainties 此等事件及情況顯示存有重大不明朗因
that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 素，可能對本集團持續經營能力構成重
and, therefore, that the Group may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its 大疑問，故本集團可能無法於日常業務
liabilities in the normal course of business. 過程中變現資產及償還負債。
The directors of the Company are of the opinion that the Group will have sufficient 經考慮以下各項，本公司董事認為，本
working capital to finance its operations and to meet its financial obligations for at 集團將擁有足夠的營運資金為其運營撥
least the next twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial 付資金及履行其自批准該等綜合財務報
statements, after taking into consideration of the following: 表日期起未來至少12個月的財務責任：
1. China Huaneng Foundation Construction Investment Limited (“Huaneng”), 1. 本公司最大股東中國華能基礎建
the largest shareholder of the Company and its controlling shareholder, have 設投資有限公司（「華能」）及其控
committed and have proved their ability to provide continuous financial 股股東已承諾並證明其有能力於
support to the Group as is necessary to enable the Group to meet its day-to- 必要時為本集團提供持續財務支
day operations and its financial obligations as they fall due; 持，以確保本集團能夠進行日常
營運及履行到期的財務責任；
2. Huaneng has undertaken that the repayment of its loan to the Group of 2. 華能已承諾將不會自本綜合財務
approximately HK$203.7 million at 31 December 2021 will not be requested 報表獲批准日期起12個月內要求
within twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial 償還於二零二一年十二月三十一
statements, unless the Group has obtained funding from other sources and is 日約為港幣203.7百萬元之向本集
in a position to meet all repayment obligations at that time; 團貸款，除非本集團已從其他來
源獲取資金，並於當時處於可履
行一切還款責任的狀況；
Annual Report 2021 年報 103IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 2. 呈列基準（續）
Going concern (continued) 持續經營（續）
3. the Group continues to improve the operating efficiency by implementing 3. 本集團繼續透過實施措施收緊對
measures to tighten cost controls over various operating expenses in order 若干經營開支的成本控制改善經
to enhance its profitability and to improve the cash flow from its operation in 營效率，以提升盈利能力及改善
future; 未來經營所得現金流量；
4. the Group continues to negotiate/seek opportunities with the financial 4. 本集團繼續與該金融機構磋商╱
institutions for the renewal of existing/inception of the new financing 尋求機會續新現有╱開始新的融
arrangement to meet the Group’s working capital and financial requirements 資安排以滿足本集團日後營運資
in the future; and 金及財務需求；及
5. the Group is actively exploring the availability of alternative source of 5. 本集團正積極探討其他融資來源。
financing.
Having regard to the cash flow projection of the Group, which are prepared assuming 經考慮本集團現金流預測（按假設上述
that the above measures are successful, the directors of the Company are of the 措施成功而編製），本公司董事認為，
opinion that, in the light of the measures taken to-date, together with the expected 鑒於至今所採取措施，連同其他實施中
results of the other measures in progress, the Group will have sufficient funding 措施之預期結果，本集團將有充足資金
resources to satisfy its future working capital and other financing requirements. 資源滿足其未來營運資金及其他融資需
The directors of the Company believe that the aforementioned measures will be 求。本公司董事認為，根據本集團管理
successful, based on the continuous efforts by the management of the Group. 層不懈努力，上述措施將獲成功實施。
However, should the above measures not be able to implement successfully, the 然而，倘上述措施無法成功實施，則本
Group may not have sufficient funds to operate as a going concern, in which case, 集團可能沒有足夠的資金持續經營，在
adjustments might have to be made to the carrying values of the Company’s assets 該情況下，可能須將本公司資產之賬面
to their recoverable amounts, to reclassify the non-current assets and non-current 值調整至可收回金額，將非流動資產及
liabilities as current assets and current liabilities, respectively, and to provide for any 非流動負債分別重新分類為流動資產及
further liabilities which might arise. 流動負債，以及就可能產生之任何額外
負債計提撥備。
104 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
3. APPLICATION OF NEW/REVISED HKFRSs 3. 新訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準則之
應用
The Group has applied, for the first time, the following new/revised HKFRSs that are 本集團已首次應用以下適用於本集團的
relevant to the Group: 新訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準則：
Amendments to HKAS 39, HKFRSs 4, 7, 9 and 16: Interest Rate Benchmark 香港會計準則第39號、香港財務報告準
Reform – Phase 2 則第4號、第7號、第9號及第16號（修訂
本）：利率基準改革－第2期
The amendments address issues that might affect financial reporting when a 該等修訂本解決了公司因利率基準改革
company replaces the old interest rate benchmark with an alternative benchmark （「改革」）而以替代基準利率取代舊利率
rate as a result of the interest rate benchmark reform (the “Reform”). The 基準時可能對財務報告造成影響的問
amendments complement those issued in November 2019 and relate to: 題。該等修訂本補充於二零一九年十一
月頒布的修訂本，並涉及：
• changes to contractual cash flows – a company will not have to derecognise • 已訂約現金流變動－公司將毋須
or adjust the carrying amount of financial instruments for changes required by 就改革要求的變動而終止確認或
the Reform, but will instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the 調整金融工具賬面值，惟須更新
change to the alternative benchmark rate; 實際利率以反映改用替代基準利
率；
• hedge accounting – a company will not have to discontinue its hedge • 對沖會計－如對沖符合其他對沖
accounting solely because it makes changes required by the Reform, if the 會計基準，公司將毋須僅因改革
hedge meets other hedge accounting criteria; and 所要求的變動而終止對沖會計；
及
• disclosures – a company will be required to disclose information about new • 披露－公司將須披露有關改革產
risks arising from the reform and how it manages the transition to alternative 生的新增風險及如何管理過渡至
benchmark rates. 替代基準利率的資料。
The adoption of the above amendments does not have any significant impact on the 採用該等上述修訂本並不會對綜合財務
consolidated financial statements. 報表產生任何重大影響。
Annual Report 2021 年報 105IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
3. APPLICATION OF NEW/REVISED HKFRSs (continued) 3. 新訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準則之應用（續）
Future changes in HKFRSs 香港財務報告準則之未來變動
At the date of authorisation of the consolidated financial statements, the HKICPA 於本綜合財務報表獲授權日期，本集團
has issued the following new/revised HKFRSs that are not yet effective for the 並無提早採納香港會計師公會已頒佈但
current year, which the Group has not early adopted. 於本年度尚未生效之下列新訂╱經修訂香港財務報告準則。
Amendments to HKFRS16 COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 香港財務報告準則第16號 二零二一年
June 20211 （修訂本） 六月三十日之後的COVID-19相關租金優惠1
Amendments to HKAS 16 Proceeds before Intended Use2 香港會計準則第16號 作擬定用途前之
（修訂本） 所得款項2
Amendments to HKAS 37 Cost of Fulfilling a Contract2 香港會計準則第37號 履行合約的成本2
（修訂本）
Amendments to HKFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework2 香港財務報告準則第3號 對概念框架的
（修訂本） 引述2
Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2018–2020 Cycle2 香港財務報告準則的年度 二零一八年至
改進 二零二零年
週期2
Amendments to HKAS 1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or 香港會計準則第1號 將負債分類為
Non-current3 （修訂本） 流動或非流動3
Amendments to HKAS 1 Disclosure of Accounting Policies3 香港會計準則第1號 會計政策披露3
（修訂本）
Amendments to HKAS 8 Definition of Accounting Estimates3 香港會計準則第8號 會計估計的定義3
（修訂本）
Amendments to HKAS 12 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising 香港會計準則第12號 與一項單一交易
from a Single Transaction3 （修訂本） 產生之資產及負債有關之
遞延稅項3
HKFRS 17 Insurance Contracts3 香港財務報告準則第17號 保險合約3
Amendment to HKFRS 17 Initial Application of HKFRS 17 and 香港財務報告準則第17號 首次應用香港
HKFRS 9 – Comparative Information3 （修訂本） 財務報告準則第17號及香港財務報告準則第9號－比較
資料3
Amendments to HKFRS 10 and Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor 香港財務報告準則第10號 投資者與其聯營
HKAS 28 and its Associate or Joint Venture4 及香港會計準則第28號 公司或合營
（修訂本） 企業之間之
資產出售或
投入4
1 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2021 1 於二零二一年四月一日或之後開始之年度期間生效
2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022 2 於二零二二年一月一日或之後開始之年度期間生效
3 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023 3 於二零二三年一月一日或之後開始之年度期間生效
4 The effective date to be determined 4 生效日期尚待釐定
The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the adoption of the new/ 本公司董事預期日後採納該等新訂╱經
revised HKFRSs in future periods will have any material impact on the results and 修訂香港財務報告準則不會對本集團之
financial position of the Group. 業績及財務狀況造成任何重大影響。
106 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 4. 主要會計政策
Basis of measurement 計量基準
The measurement basis used in the preparation of the consolidated financial 編製本綜合財務報表所採用之計量基準
statements is historical cost. 為歷史成本。
Basis of consolidation 綜合基準
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the 本綜合財務報表包括本公司及本公司所
Company and entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries. Control is 控制的實體及其附屬公司的財務報表。
achieved when the Company: 當本公司具有以下能力，即具有控制
權：
• has power over the investee; • 對投資對象行使權力；
• is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the • 從參與投資對象活動而面對或有
investee; and 權享有不同形式的回報；及
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. • 能夠運用其權力影響投資對象回
報。
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and 倘事實及情況反映上文所列三項控制因
circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements 素其中一項或多項改變，則本集團會重
of control listed above. 估其是否對被投資者擁有控制權。
In the Company’s statement of financial position as set out in note 35 to the 於載於綜合財務報表附註35之本公司財
consolidated financial statements, an investment in subsidiary is stated at cost 務狀況表，於附屬公司之投資按成本減
less impairment loss. The carrying amount of the investment is reduced to its 減值虧損列賬。倘較可收回金額高，則
recoverable amount on an individual basis, if it is higher than the recoverable 按個別基準將有關投資之賬面值撇減至
amount. The results of subsidiaries are accounted for by the Company on the basis 可收回金額。本公司按已收取及應收股
of dividends received and receivable. 息基準將附屬公司業績記賬。
Annual Report 2021 年報 107IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Basis of consolidation (continued) 綜合基準（續）
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the 當本集團取得附屬公司之控制權時，開
subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, 始將該附屬公司綜合入賬；當本集團失
income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are 去附屬公司之控制權時，則停止將該附
included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 屬公司綜合入賬。具體而言，於本期間
income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group 購入或出售的附屬公司的收支已計入綜
ceases to control the subsidiary. 合損益及其他全面收益表。本集團取得
控制權，直至本集團對該附屬公司之控
制權終止當日為止。
Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the 損益及各其他全面收入項目歸屬予本公
owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive 司擁有人及非控股權益。附屬公司全面
income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non- 收入總額歸屬予本公司擁有人及非控股
controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 權益，即使其導致非控股權益出現虧
balance. 絀。
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to 本集團於需要時會對附屬公司的財務報
bring their accounting policies line with those used by other members of the Group. 表作出調整，使其會計政策與本集團會
計政策相符。
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on 本集團內公司間一切交易、有關本集團
consolidation. 成員間交易的結餘、收入及支出已於綜
合賬目時悉數對銷。
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are presented separately from the Group’s 於附屬公司的非控股權益與本集團於其
equity therein, which represent present ownership interests entitling their holders to 中所佔的股權分開呈列，後者指於清盤
a proportionate share of net assets of the relevant subsidiaries upon liquidation. 時持有人可按比例獲得的相關附屬公司
淨資產份額的現時所有權權益。
108 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Goodwill 商譽
Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost less any 因收購業務產生之商譽按成本減除任何
accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented separately in the 累積減值虧損（如有），並於綜合財務狀
consolidated statement of financial position. 況表中另行列賬。
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s 為了減值測試的目的，商譽乃被分配到
cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit 預期可受惠於收購協同效應之各有關本
from the synergies of the combination, which represent the lowest level at which 集團的創現單位或創現單位之組別（即
the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not larger than an 監察商譽作內部管理目的之最低水平且
operating segment. 不大於經營分部）。
A cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) to which goodwill has 已獲分配商譽之創現單位或創現單位之
been allocated is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is 組別會每年或凡有跡象顯示單位可能出
indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a 現減值時會更頻繁地進行減值測試。就
reporting period, the cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) to 於報告期間內收購產生之商譽而言，所
which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end of that 獲分配商譽之創現單位於報告期間結束
reporting period. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than 前進行減值測試。當創現單位的可收回
its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 金額少於其賬面值，減值虧損會首先分
amount of any goodwill allocated to that unit and then to the other assets of the 配以削減任何分配至該單位的商譽的賬
unit on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit (or 面值，然後按該單位（或創現單位之組
groups of cash-generating units). 別）內其他資產賬面值比例削減該單位
其他資產的賬面值。
Property, plant and equipment 物業、機器及設備
Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production 物業、機器及設備包括持有以用作貨品
or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes are stated in the 生產或供應或服務或行政用途的樓宇，
consolidated statement of financial position at cost less subsequent accumulated 乃按成本值減除其後累積折舊以及累積
depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses, if any. 減值虧損（如有）於綜合財務狀況表列
賬。
Annual Report 2021 年報 109IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Property, plant and equipment (continued) 物業、機器及設備（續）
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of items of property, plant 物業、機器及設備均以直線法，按估計
and equipment less their residual values over their estimated useful lives, using the 可用年期減去剩餘值計提折舊撥備，以
straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation 攤銷成本。估計可使用年期、剩餘值及
method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any 折舊方法乃於各報告期末予以檢討，而
changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. 任何估計變動的影響均以前瞻性為基礎
入賬。
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when 物業、機器及設備之項目於出售時或當
no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the 預期持續使用該資產不再帶來未來經濟
asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, 利益時終止確認。因物業，機器及設備
plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds 出售或報廢而產生之任何收益或虧損
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss. （按出售所得款項淨額與資產賬面值之
差額計算）乃列入損益。
Investment properties 投資物業
Investment properties are properties that are held by lessee, to earn rental income. 投資物業指為賺取租金收入而由承租人
Investment properties include leased properties which are being recognised as right- 持有之物業。投資物業包括租賃物業，
of-use assets upon application of HKFRS 16 and sub-leased by the Group under 其於應用香港財務報告準則第16號時確
operating leases. 認為使用權資產並由本集團根據經營租
賃進行分租。
Investment properties are initially measured at cost, including any directly attributable 投資物業初步按成本（包括任何直接應
expenditure. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at 佔開支）計量。初步確認後，投資物業
cost less subsequent accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 以成本減其後累計折舊及任何累計減值
losses. Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of investment 虧損列賬。確認折舊時，採用直線法將
properties over shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives and after 投資物業的成本按較短的租期及估計可
taking into account of their estimated residual value, using the straight-line method. 使用年期及考慮其估計剩餘價值後撇
銷。
If an investment property becomes a right-of-use asset because its use has changed as 倘投資物業因其使用用途發生改變而變
evidenced by the commencement of owner-occupation, the carrying amount of the 為使用權資產（自擁有人佔用開始時），
property at the date of transfer is transferred to the right-of-use asset. 則該物業在轉讓之日的賬面值將轉移至
使用權資產。
110 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Investment properties (continued) 投資物業（續）
An investment property is derecognised upon disposal or when the investment 投資物業於出售或當投資物業永久不再
property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits 使用並預期其出售不會帶來未來經濟利
are expected from its disposal. A leased property which is recognised as a right- 益時終止確認。倘本集團作為中介出租
of-use asset upon application of HKFRS 16 is derecognised if the Group as an 人將分租分類為融資租賃，則於應用香
intermediate lessor classifies the sublease as a finance lease. Any gain or loss arising 港財務報告準則第16號後確認為使用權
on derecognition of the property (calculated as the difference between the net 資產的租賃物業將終止確認。物業終止
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss 確認時產生的任何收益或虧損（按出售
in the period in which the property is derecognised. 所得款項淨額與資產賬面值之間的差額
計算），乃計入該物業終止確認期間內
的損益。
Intangible assets 無形資產
Research and development costs 研究及開發成本
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which 研究活動的支出於產生期間確認為開
it is incurred. Costs incurred on development activities, which involve the application 支。涉及將研究結果應用於計劃或設計
of research findings to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 生產新的或大幅改善的產品及程序之開
improved products and processes, are capitalised if the product or process is 發活動所產生成本在有關產產品或程序
technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to 技術上及商業上可行且本集團有足夠資
complete the development. The expenditure capitalised will be the outsourcing 源完成開發的情況下資本化。資本化
costs. Other development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as an expense as 支出將為外判成本。其他開發支出於損
incurred. When the asset is available for use, the capitalised development costs are 益確認為已產生開支。當資產可供使用
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. 時，資本化開發成本以直線法按估計可
使用年期攤銷。
Annual Report 2021 年報 111IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments 金融工具
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a group entity becomes 倘集團實體成為該工具合約條文之訂約
a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. All regular way purchases 方，應確認金融資產及金融負債。所有
or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. 以常規方式購入或出售金融資產乃按交
Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require 易日期基準確認及終止確認。以常規方
delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in 式購入或出售指須於市場規定或慣例所
the marketplace. 訂時限內交付資產的金融資產購入或出
售。
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value except for 金融資產及金融負債初步按公平值計
trade receivables without a significant financing component arising from contracts 量，惟源於客戶合約沒有重大融資成分
with customers which are initially measured in accordance with HKFRS 15. 的應收賬款按香港財務報告準則第15號
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial 初步計量。收購或發行金融資產及金融
assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets or financial liabilities at fair 負債（除按公平值計入損益（「按公平值
value through profit or loss (the “FVTPL”)) are added to or deducted from the fair 計入損益」）的金融資產或金融負債）直
value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 接應佔之交易成本乃於初步確認時加入
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial 金融資產或金融負債之公平值或自其中
liabilities at FVTPL are recognised immediately in profit or loss. 扣除（如適用）。收購按公平值計入損益
的金融資產或金融負債直接應佔的交易
成本即時於損益確認。
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of 實際利率法是計算金融資產或金融負債
a financial asset or financial liability and of allocating interest income and interest 之攤銷成本，以及在攤分有關期間利息
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 收入及利息支出的方法。該實際利率為
discounts estimated future cash receipts and payments (including all fees and points 將金融資產或金融負債於預計年期或較
paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction 短期間內（如適用）的預計未來現金收入
costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial 及付款（包括構成實際利率之所有已付
asset or financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying 或已收取之費用或點數、交易成本及其
amount on initial recognition. 他溢價或折扣）準確折現至於初次確認
時之賬面淨值之利率。
112 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets 金融資產
Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets 金融資產之分類及其後計量
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at 符合以下條件的金融資產於其後按攤銷
amortised cost: 成本計量：
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect • 該金融資產以收取合約現金流量
contractual cash flows; and 為目的之商業模式下持有；及
• the contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely • 合約條款令特定日期產生之現金
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 流量謹為支付本金及未償還本金
之利息。
Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair 符合下列條件的金融資產其後按公平值
value through other comprehensive income (the “FVTOCI”): 計入其他全面收益（「按公平值計入其他
全面收益」）計量：
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved • 金融資產按目的為收取合約現金
by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling; and 流量及出售實現的業務模式內持
有；及
• the contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely • 合約條款令於特定日期產生之現
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 金流量謹為支付本金及未償還本
金之利息。
All other financial assets are subsequently measured at FVTPL, except that at the 所有其他金融資產其後按公平值計入損
date of initial application/initial recognition of a financial asset, the Group may 益計量，惟於首次應用╱首次確認金融
irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity investment 資產當日，倘該等股本投資並非持作買
in other comprehensive income (the “OCI”) if that equity investment is neither held 賣，亦非收購方於香港財務報告準則第
for trading nor contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business 3號業務合併所應用之業務合併中確認
combination to which HKFRS 3 Business Combinations applies. 之或然代價，本集團可不可撤銷地選擇
於其他全面收益（「其他全面收益」）呈列
股本投資公平值之其後變動。
Annual Report 2021 年報 113IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之分類及其後計量（續）
A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: 應當劃分為交易性金融資產：
• it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; or • 取得金融資產的目的主要是為了
近期內出售；或
• on initial recognition it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments • 初始確認時，屬本集團一併管理
that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short- 的已識別金融工具組合的一部
term profit-taking; or 分，並且具有近期實際短期套利
模式；或
• it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. • 其為不指定及有效作為對沖工具
之衍生工具。
In addition, the Group may irrevocably designate a financial asset that are required 此外，本集團可不可撤回地指定一項須
to be measured at the amortised cost or FVTOCI as measured at FVTPL if doing so 按攤銷成本或透過按公平值計入其他全
eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch. 面收益計量的金融資產按公平值計入損
益計量，前提為有關指定可消除或大幅
減少會計錯配。
Amortised cost and interest income 攤銷成本及利息收入
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method for financial 利息收入就其後按攤銷成本計量的金融
assets measured subsequently at amortised cost and debt instruments/receivables 資產及其後按公平值計入其他全面收益
subsequently measured at FVTOCI. Interest income is calculated by applying the 計量的債務工具╱應收款項以實際利率
effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for 法確認。利息收入透過將實際利率應用
financial assets that have subsequently become credit-impaired (see below). 於金融資產總賬面值計算，惟其後已
變為信貸減值的金融資產則除外（見下
文）。
114 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之分類及其後計量（續）
Amortised cost and interest income (continued) 攤銷成本及利息收入（續）
For financial assets that have subsequently become credit-impaired, interest income 就其後已變為信貸減值的金融資產而
is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the 言，利息收入透過將實際利率應用於自
financial asset from the next reporting period. If the credit risk on the credit- 下個報告期起計的金融資產攤銷成本確
impaired financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit- 認。倘信貸減值金融工具的信貸風險升
impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to 高，以使金融資產不再維持信貸減值，
the gross carrying amount of the financial asset from the beginning of the reporting 則利息收入在釐定資產不再維持信貸減
period following the determination that the asset is no longer credit-impaired. 值後，透過將實際利率應用於自報告期
開始時起計的金融資產總賬面值確認。
Impairment of financial assets 金融資產之減值
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (“ECL”) on 本集團就根據香港財務報告準則第9號
financial assets which are subject to impairment under HKFRS 9 (including trade 須予減值的金融資產（包括應收賬款及
and other receivables, finance lease receivables and bank balances and cash). The 其他應收款項、融資租賃應收款項及銀
amount of ECL is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk 行結餘及現金）的預期信貸虧損（「預期
since initial recognition. 信貸虧損」）確認虧損撥備。預期信貸虧
損金額於各報告日期更新，以反映自初
步確認以來信貸風險的變化。
Lifetime ECL represents the ECL that will result from all possible default events 全期預期信貸虧損指相關工具的預計年
over the expected life of the relevant instrument. In contrast, 12-month ECL (“12m 期內所有可能的違約事件將產生的預期
ECL”) represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default 信貸虧損。相反，12個月預期信貸虧損
events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. Assessment are （「12個月預期信貸虧損」）指預期於報告
done based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors 日期後12個月內可能發生的違約事件導
that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of 致的部分全期預期信貸虧損。評估乃根
both the current conditions at the reporting date as well as the forecast of future 據本集團過往信貸虧損經驗進行，並就
conditions. 債務人特有的因素、一般經濟狀況以及
對報告日期的當前狀況及未來狀況預測
的評估作出調整。
Annual Report 2021 年報 115IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
The Group always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables without significant 本集團始終就沒有重大融資成分的應收
financing component. The ECL on these assets is assessed collectively using a 賬款確認全期預期信貸虧損。該等資產
provision matrix with appropriate groupings. 的預期信貸虧損乃採用具合適組別的撥
備矩陣進行集體評估。
For all other instruments, the Group measures the loss allowance equal to 12m 對於所有其他工具，本集團計量等於12
ECL, unless when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial 個月預期信貸虧損的虧損撥備，除非自
recognition, the Group recognises lifetime ECL. The assessment of whether lifetime 初步確認以來信貸風險大幅增加，則本
ECL should be recognised is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of 集團確認全期預期信貸虧損。評估是否
a default occurring since initial recognition. 應確認全期預期信貸虧損乃基於自初步
確認以來發生違約的可能性或風險是否
大幅增加。
(i) Significant increase in credit risk (i) 信貸風險大幅增加
In assessing whether the credit risk has increased significantly since initial 於評估自初步確認以來信貨風險
recognition, the Group compares the risk of a default occurring on the 是否大幅增加時，本集團將金融
financial instrument as at the reporting date with the risk of a default 工具於報告日期發生的違約風險
occurring on the financial instrument as at the date of initial recognition. 與該金融工具於初步確認日期發
生的違約風險進行比較。
In making this assessment, the Group considers both quantitative and 進行此評估時，本集團會考慮合
qualitative information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical 理且有理據的定量及定性數據，
experience and forward-looking information that is available without undue 包括過往經驗及無需付出不必要
cost or effort. 的成本或努力而可獲得的前瞻性
資料。
116 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
(i) Significant increase in credit risk (continued) (i) 信貸風險大幅增加（續）
In particular, the following information is taken into account when assessing 特別是，在評估信貸風險是否大
whether credit risk has increased significantly: 幅增加時會考慮以下數據：
• an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial • 金融工具的外部（如有）或
instrument’s external (if available) or internal credit rating; 內部信貸評級的實際或預
期顯著惡化；
• significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit risk, e.g. • 信貸風險的外界市場指標
a significant increase in the credit spread, the credit default swap prices 的重大惡化，例如債務人
for the debtor; 的信貸息差、信貸違約掉
期價大幅增加；
• existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic • 預計將導致債務人償還其
conditions that are expected to cause a significant decrease in the 債務責任的能力大幅下降
debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations; 的業務、財務或經濟狀況
的現有或預測的不利變化；
• an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating results • 債務人經營業績的實際或
of the debtor; and 預期顯著惡化；及
• an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, • 導致債務人償還其債務責
economic, or technological environment of the debtor that results in a 任的能力大幅下降的債務
significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations. 人監管、經濟或技術環境
的實際或預期的重大不利
變化。
Irrespective of the outcome of the above assessment, the Group presumes 不論上述評估的結果如何，本集
that the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition when 團認為，倘合約付款逾期超過30
contractual payments are more than 30 days past due, unless the Group has 天，則自初步確認以來信貸風險
reasonable and supportable information that demonstrates otherwise. 已大幅增加，除非本集團有合理
且有理據的資料可予證明。
Annual Report 2021 年報 117IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
(i) Significant increase in credit risk (continued) (i) 信貸風險大幅增加（續）
The Group regularly monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify 本集團定期監控用以識別信貸風
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and revises them 險有否大幅增加的標準之有效
as appropriate to ensure that the criteria are capable of identifying significant 性，並修訂有關標準（如適用）以
increase in credit risk before the amount becomes past due. 確保其能夠在金額逾期前識別信
貸風險大幅增加。
(ii) Definition of default (ii) 違約定義
For internal credit risk management, the Group considers an event of default 就內部信貸風險管理而言，本集
occurs when information developed internally or obtained from external 團認為，違約事件在內部制訂或
sources indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay its creditors, including the 得自外界來源的數據顯示債務人
Group, in full (without taking into account any collaterals held by the Group). 不大可能悉數向債權人（包括本集
團）還款（未計及本集團所持任何
抵押品）時發生。
Irrespective of the above, the Group considers that default has occurred 無論上述情形如何，本集團認
when a financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the Group has 為，倘金融資產逾期超過90天，
reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging 則已發生違約事件，除非本集團
default criterion is more appropriate. 有合理且有理據的數據顯示更寬
鬆的違約標準更為合適。
118 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
(iii) Credit-impaired financial assets (iii) 信貸減值金融資產
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events of default that 倘發生一項或多項對金融資產估
have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial 計未來現金流量有不利影響的違
asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes 約事件，金融資產出現信貸減
observable data about the following events: 值。金融資產信貸減值的證據包
括有關下列事件的可觀察數據：
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower; • 發行人或借款人出現嚴重
財務困難；
• a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event; • 違反合約，如違約或逾期
事件；
• the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons • 借款人的放款人因與借款
relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the 人出現財務困難有關的經
borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise 濟或合約理由而給予借款
consider; 人在一般情況下放款人不
予考慮的優惠條件；
• it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or • 借款人可能破產或進行其
other financial reorganisation; or 他財務重組；或
• the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because • 該金融資產的活躍市場因
of financial difficulties. 財務困難而消失。
Annual Report 2021 年報 119IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
(iv) Write-off policy (iv) 撇銷政策
The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating 倘有數據顯示交易對手處於嚴重
that the counterparty is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic 財務困難時，且並無實際收回可
prospect of recovery, for example, when the counterparty has been placed 能（例如交易對手已被清盤或已進
under liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings, or in the 入破產程序），或就應收賬款而
case of trade receivables, when the amounts are over three years past due, 言，有關金額逾期超過三年（以較
whichever occurs sooner. Financial assets written off may still be subject 早發生者為準），本集團會撇銷
to enforcement activities under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking 金融資產。在考慮法律意見（如適
into account legal advice where appropriate. A write-off constitutes a 當）後，已撇銷的金融資產仍可根
derecognition event. Any subsequent recoveries are recognised in profit or 據本集團的收回程序實施強制執
loss. 行。撇銷構成終止確認事件。其
後收回的任何資產會於損益內確
認。
(v) Measurement and recognition of ECL (v) 預期信貸虧損之計量及確認
The measurement of ECL is a function of the probability of default, loss given 預期信貸虧損之計量為違約概
default (i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there is a default) and the exposure 率、違約損失率（即倘發生違約的
at default. The assessment of the probability of default and loss given 損失程度）及違約風險之函數。違
default is based on historical data adjusted by forward-looking information. 約概率及違約損失率之評估乃基
Estimation of ECL reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is 於經前瞻性數據調整之歷史數據
determined with the respective risks of default occurring as the weights. 作出。預期信貸虧損的估計乃無
偏概率加權平均金額，以各自發
生違約的風險為權重釐定。
Generally, the ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that 一般而言，預期信貸虧損乃根據
are due to the Group in accordance with the contract and the cash flows 合約應付本集團之所有合約現金
that the Group expects to receive, discounted at the effective interest rate 流量與本集團預期收取之現金流
determined at initial recognition. 量之間的差額，並按初步確認時
釐定之實際利率貼現。
120 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
(v) Measurement and recognition of ECL (continued) (v) 預期信貸虧損之計量及確認（續）
Where ECL is measured on a collective basis or cater for cases where 倘預期信貸虧損按集體基準計量
evidence at the individual instrument level may not yet be available, the 或迎合個別工具水平證據未必存
financial instruments are grouped on the following basis: 在的情況，則金融工具按以下基
準歸類：
• nature of financial instruments (i.e. the Group’s trade and other • 金融工具性質（即本集團貿
receivables are each assessed as a separate group); 易及其他應收款項各自評
為獨立組別）；
• past-due status; • 逾期狀況；
• nature, size and industry of debtors; and • 債務人的性質、規模及行
業；及
• external credit ratings where available. • 外部信貸評級（倘有）。
The grouping is regularly reviewed by the management of the Group to 歸類工作經本集團管理層定期檢
ensure the constituents of each group continue to share similar credit risk 討，以確保各組別成份繼續分擔
characteristics. 類似信貸風險特性。
Interest income is calculated based on the gross carrying amount of the 利息收入按金融資產的賬面值計
financial asset unless the financial asset is credit-impaired, in which case 算，除非該金融資產信貸減值，
interest income is calculated based on amortised cost of the financial asset. 於該情況下，利息收入按金融資
產的攤銷成本計算。
Annual Report 2021 年報 121IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Financial assets (continued) 金融資產（續）
Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融資產之減值（續）
(v) Measurement and recognition of ECL (continued) (v) 預期信貸虧損之計量及確認（續）
The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all 本集團透過調整賬面值於損益確
financial instruments by adjusting their carrying amount, with the exception of 認所有金融工具的減值收益或虧
trade receivables and other receivables where the corresponding adjustment is 損，惟應收賬款及其他應收款項
recognised through a loss allowance account. 除外，其相關調整乃透過虧損撥
備賬予以確認。
Financial liabilities and equity instruments 金融負債及股本工具
Debt and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified as either 集團實體發行之債務及股本工具乃根據
financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual 合同安排的內容，以及金融負債及股本
arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. 工具之定義分類為金融負債或股本工
具。
Equity instruments 股本工具
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets 股本工具乃代表本集團於扣減所有負債
of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the group 後之資產中擁有剩餘權益的任何合同。
entities are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 集團實體發行之股本工具乃按已收所得
款項扣除直接發行成本記賬。
Financial liabilities 金融負債
Financial liabilities including trade and other payables, borrowings and loan from 金融負債（包括應付賬款及其他應付款
a shareholder are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 項、借款以及股東貸款）乃隨後採用實
interest method. 際利率法按攤銷後成本計量。
122 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（續）
Derecognition 終止確認
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to 本集團僅當從資產收取現金流量之合約
the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and 權利已到期或把金融資產轉讓，並實質
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. 上將其於資產擁有權之絕大部份風險及
回報轉至另一實體時，才終止確認金融
資產。
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the asset’s carrying 於終止確認金融資產時，該項資產賬面
amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and, if applicable, 值，與已收及應收代價及已於其他全面
any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive 收益確認及累積於權益中之累計收益及
income and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss. 虧損之總數間的差額會直接於損益確
認。
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s 本集團僅會在訂明責任解除、注銷或屆
obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired. The difference between the 滿時，終止確認金融負債。終止確認之
carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and 金融負債的賬面值與已付或應付代價之
payable is recognised in profit or loss. 間的差額於損益確認。
Cash equivalents 等同現金項目
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash equivalents 就綜合現金流量表而言，等同現金項目
represent short-term highly liquid investments which are readily convertible into 包括可隨時轉換為已知數額現金且價值
known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 變動風險極微之短期高流動性投資，扣
value, net of bank overdrafts (if any). 除銀行透支（如有）。
Annual Report 2021 年報 123IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Revenue from contracts with customers 客戶合約收益
Under HKFRS 15, the Group recognises revenue when (or as) a performance 根據香港財務報告準則第15號，當（或
obligation is satisfied, i.e. when “control” of the goods or services underlying the 於）本集團於完成履約責任時（即於特定
particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. 履約責任相關的貨品或服務之「控制權」
已轉移至客戶時）確認收益。
A performance obligation represents a good or service (or a bundle of goods or 履約責任指一項明確貨品或服務（或一
services) that is distinct or a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially 組貨品或服務）或一系列大致相同的明
the same. 確貨品或服務。
Control is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time by reference 倘符合下列其中一項標準，而控制權隨
to the progress towards complete satisfaction of the relevant performance obligation 時間轉移，收益會參考相關履約責任的
if one of the following criteria is met: 已完成進度隨時間確認：
• the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by • 客戶於本集團履約時同時收取及
the Group’s performance as the Group performs; 消耗本集團履約所提供的利益；
• the Group’s performance creates and enhances an asset that the customer • 本集團履約產生及提升於本集團
controls as the Group performs; or 履約時由客戶控制的資產；或
• the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative • 本集團履約並無產生對本集團有
use to the Group and the Group has an enforceable right to payment for 替代用途的資產，且本集團有強
performance completed to date. 制執行權收取至今以履約的部分
款項。
Otherwise, revenue is recognised at a point in time when the customer obtains 否則，收益於客戶獲得明確的貨品或服
control of the distinct good or service. 務的控制權時確認。
The Group recognised revenue at a point in time when the control of the goods is 本集團於貨品的控制權獲轉讓時確認收
transferred. 益。
A contract liability represents the Group’s obligation to transfer goods or services 合約負債指本集團因已自客戶收取代價
to a customer for which the Group has received consideration (or an amount of （或到期收取的代價金額），而須向客戶
consideration is due) from the customer. 轉讓貨品或服務的責任。
124 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Contract assets and contract liabilities 合約資產及合約負債
If the Group performs by transferring goods or services to a customer before the 倘本集團於客戶支付代價或付款到期前
customer pays consideration or before payment is due, the contract is presented 將貨品或服務轉讓予客戶，則合約呈列
as a contract asset, excluding any amounts presented as a receivable. Conversely, 為合約資產，惟不包括呈列為應收款項
if a customer pays consideration, or the Group has a right to an amount of 的任何款項。相反，倘於本集團將貨品
consideration that is unconditional, before the Group transfers a good or service to 或服務轉讓予客戶前客戶支付代價，或
the customer, the contract is presented as a contract liability when the payment is 本集團擁有無條件收取代價的權利，
made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). A receivable is the Group’s right 則本集團在付款或付款到期時（以較早
to consideration that is unconditional or only the passage of time is required before 者為準），合約呈列為合約負債。應收
payment of that consideration is due. 款項指本集團擁有無條件收取代價的權
利，或代價到期付款前僅需時間推移。
For a single contract or a single set of related contracts, either a net contract asset 就單一合約或多份相關合約而言，概不
or a net contract liability is presented. Contract assets and contract liabilities of 合約資產淨值或合約負債淨額呈列。不
unrelated contracts are not presented on a net basis. 相關合約的合約資產與合約負債概不以
淨額呈列。
For the business of Group, it is common for the Group to receive from the 就本集團業務而言，本集團慣常於服務
customer the whole or some of the contractual payments before the services are 完成前或貨品交付時（即有關交易之收
completed or when the goods are delivered (i.e. the timing of revenue recognition 益確認時間點）向客戶收取全額或部分
for such transactions). The Group recognises a contract liability until it is recognised 合約付款。本集團確認合約負債直至其
as revenue. During that period, any significant financing components, if applicable, 確認為收益。於該期間，任何重大融資
will be included in the contract liability and will be expensed as accrued unless the 成分（如適用）將計入合約負債並以累計
interest expense is eligible for capitalisation. 方式作開支，除非有關利息開支合資格
作資本化。
Annual Report 2021 年報 125IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Foreign currencies 外幣
In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in 於編製各個別集團實體之財務報表時，
currencies other than the functional currency of that entity (foreign currencies) are 以該實體功能貨幣以外之貨幣（外幣）進
recognised at the rates of exchanges prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At 行的交易均按交易日期所適用匯率換算
the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies 為功能貨幣記賬。於各報告期末，以外
are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items that are 幣定值之貨幣項目均按報告期末所適用
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 匯率重新換算。按外幣過往成本計量之
非貨幣項目毋須重新換算。
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the 結算貨幣項目及重新換算貨幣項目所產
retranslation of monetary items, are recognised in profit or loss in the period in 生的匯兌差額均於產生年度在損益確
which they arise. 認。
For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets 就呈列綜合財務報表而言，本集團海外
and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into the presentation 經營業務之資產及負債乃按各報告期末
currency of the Group (i.e. HK$) using exchange rate prevailing at the end of each 所適用匯率換算為本公司之列賬貨幣
reporting period. Income and expenses items are translated at the average exchange （即港幣），其收支項目乃按該期間之平
rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during the period, 均匯率換算，惟在該期間的匯率大幅波
in which case, the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions are used. 動的情形下，則按交易當日的現行匯率
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income 換算。所產生之匯兌差額（如有）乃確認
and accumulated in equity under the heading of translation reserve (attributable to 於其他全面收益及累計至貨幣換算儲備
non-controlling interests as appropriate). （屬於非控股權益（如適用））標題下之權
益。
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest 出售境外業務時（即出售本集團於境外
in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that 業務之全部權益、或出售涉及失去包括
includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement 境外業務之附屬公司之控制權、或出售
or an associate that includes a foreign operation of which the retained interest 包括境外業務之合營安排或聯營公司之
becomes a financial asset), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in 部分權益（其保留權益成為一項金融資
respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified 產）），所有就有關本公司擁有人應佔業
to profit or loss. 務於權益累計之匯兌差額重新分類至損
益賬。
On all other partial disposals, which includes partial disposal of associates or 就所有其他部分出售（包括部分出售聯
joint ventures that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint 屬公司或聯營公司而不導致本集團失去
control, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of exchange differences 重大影響力或共同控制權），確認於權
recognised in the separate component of equity is reclassified to profit or loss. 益之個別項目之匯兌差額累計金額之按
比例部分獲重新分類至損益。
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an 收購境外業務時產生獲收購及識別資產
acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign 之商譽及公平值調整按該境外業務的資
operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of reporting 產及負債處理，並按報告期末當行匯率
period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the translation reserve. 換算。所產生匯兌差額確認於貨幣換算
儲備。
126 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Inventories 存貨
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost, which 存貨按成本與可變現淨值之間較低者列
comprises all costs of purchase and, where applicable, cost of conversion and other 賬。成本包括所有購買成本及（如適用）
costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 轉換成本及使存貨達致當前位置及狀況
and condition, is calculated using the weighted average cost method. Net realisable 所產生的其他成本，並以加權平均成本
value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less 法計算。可變現淨值即業務日常運作中
the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the 估計售價減去估計完工成本及估計銷售
sale. 所需成本。
When inventories are sold, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised 存貨售出時，該等存貨之賬面值於確認
as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recognised. The amount 相關收益同期間確認為開支。任何存貨
of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value and all losses of inventories 撇減至可變現淨值的金額及所有存貨虧
are recognised as an expense in the period of the write-down or loss occurs. The 損於發生撇減或虧損期間確認為開支。
amount of any reversal of any write-down of inventories is recognised as a reduction 任何撥回存貨撇減於發生撥回同期間確
in the amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the period in which the 認為扣減確認為開支之存貨金額。
reversal occurs.
Fair value measurement 公平值計量
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 公平值為市場參與者間於計量日期進行
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 的有序交易中，出售資產所收取或轉讓
measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that 負債所支付之價格。公平值計量乃基於
the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the 假設出售資產或轉讓負債的交易於該資
principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in 產或負債的主要市場（或在無主要市場
the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most 的情況下，則於對該資產或負債最有利
advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. The fair value of an asset 的市場）進行而作出。該主要或最有利
or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use 的市場須為本集團可進入的市場。資產
when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their 或負債的公平值乃採用市場參與者為資
economic best interest. 產或負債定價時所用的假設計量，即假
設市場參與者按其最佳經濟利益行事。
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market 非金融資產的公平值計量計及市場參與
participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest 者透過使用其資產的最高及最佳用途或
and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset 透過將資產出售予將使用其最高及最佳
in its highest and best use. 用途的另一名市場參與者而產生經濟利
益的能力。
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and 本集團採用在各情況下適當的估值技
for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of 術，而其有足夠資料可計量公平值，以
relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. 盡量使用相關可觀察輸入數據及盡量避
免使用不可觀察輸入數據。
Annual Report 2021 年報 127IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Fair value measurement (continued) 公平值計量
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised 此外，就財務報告而言，公平值計量根
into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 據公平值計量之輸入數據可觀察程度及
measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value 輸入數據對公平值計量之整體重要性分
measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: 類為第一級、第二級或第三級，概述如
下：
• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for • 第一級 輸入數據是實體於計
identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 量日期可以取得的相
measurement date; 同資產或負債於活躍
市場之報價（未經調
整）；
• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within • 第二級 輸入數據是就資產或
Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 負債可直接或間接地
directly or indirectly; and 觀察之輸入數據（第
一級內計入的報價除
外）；及
• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. • 第三級 輸入數據是資產或負
債的不可觀察輸入數
據。
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the consolidated financial statements 就按經常基準於財務報表確認的資產及
on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 負債而言，本集團透過於各報告期末重
between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest 新評估分類（基於對公平值計量整體而
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 言屬重大的最低層輸入數據）釐定各層
each reporting period. 級之間有否出現轉移。
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill 有形及無形資產之減值，不包括商譽
At the end of the reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 於報告期末，本集團審閱其擁有有限使
tangible and intangible assets with finite useful lives to determine whether there 用年期的有形及無形資產之賬面值，以
is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such 確定是否有任可跡象顯示該等資產蒙受
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the relevant asset is estimated in order 減值虧損。如出現任何有關跡象，則會
to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 估計相關資產之可收回金額，以決定減
值虧損（如有）之程度。
128 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill (continued) 有形及無形資產之減值，不包括商譽
（續）
The recoverable amount of tangible and intangible assets are estimated individually, 有形及無形資產的可收回金額個別估
or when it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an asset 計。倘若不大可能個別估計資產的可收
individually, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 回金額，則本集團估計資產所屬創現單
to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation 位的可收回金額。如分配的合理及一致
can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating 基準可予識別，則公司資產亦被分配至
units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units 個別創現單位，或於其他情況下彼等被
for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. 分配至創現單位的最小組合，而該創現
單位的合理及一致分配基準可予識別。
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in 可收回金額為公平值減去銷售所需成本
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 及可使用價值之較高者。於評估可使用
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 價值時，將日後現金流之估值以一個能
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset (or a cash-generating 反映現時市場評估金錢時間價值及該資
unit) for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 產（或創現單位）之特有風險（而該風險
並未在日後現金流之估值中作調整）的
稅前折扣率折現至其現值。
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash-generating unit) is estimated to be 倘一項資產（或一創現單位）之可收回金
less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-generating 額估計少於其賬面值，則該項資產（或
unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. In allocating the impairment loss, the 一創現單位）之賬面值將撇減至其可收
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill (if 回金額。於分配減值虧損時，減值虧損
applicable) and then to the other assets on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying 將首先分配至削減任何商譽（如有）之賬
amount of each asset in the unit. The carrying amount of an asset is not reduced 面值，其後以該單位各項資產之賬面值
below the highest of its fair value less costs of disposal (if measurable), its value 為基準按比例分配到其他資產。資產賬
in use (if determinable) and zero. The amount of the impairment loss that would 面值不會降至低於其公平值減去出售成
otherwise have been allocated to the asset is allocated pro-rata to the other assets 本（倘可計算）、其使用價值（倘可確定）
of the unit. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 及零之最高者。分配至資產的減值虧損
數額則按單位的其他資產比例分配。減
值虧損會實時於損益確認。
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset 倘某項減值虧損其後撥回，則該項資產
(or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable （或創現單位）之賬面值須增至其可回收
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 金額經修訂後的估值，惟增加後之賬面
amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised 值不得超過假設該項資產（或一創現單
for the asset (or a cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 位）於過往年度未有出現減值虧損所釐
loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 定的賬面值。減值虧損撥回實時確認在
損益中。
Annual Report 2021 年報 129IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill (continued) 有形及無形資產之減值，不包括商譽
（續）
The accounting policy for recognition of the impairment loss for goodwill is stated in 有關確認商譽之減值虧損之會計政策載
the accounting policy for goodwill in the earlier part of this note. 於本附註較前部分商譽之會計政策。
Borrowing costs 借款成本
Borrowing costs incurred, net of any investment income on the temporary 收購、建造或生產合資格資產（即需要
investment of the specific borrowings, that are directly attributable to the acquisition, 一段頗長時間始能達至其擬定用途或出
construction or production of qualifying assets, i.e. assets that necessarily take a 售的資產）應佔的所產生借款成本（扣除
substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as 具體借款用作短暫投資賺取的任何投資
part of the cost of those assets. Capitalisation of such borrowing costs ceases when 收入），撥充為該等資產之部份成本。
the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. All other borrowing 該等借款成本於有關資產大體上可作其
costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 擬定用途或出售時不再撥充作資本。所
有其他借款成本於產生期間支銷。
Provisions and contingent liabilities 撥備及或有負債
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 當本集團因過去的事件需承擔當前法律
obligation as a result of past events, when it is probable that an outflow of resources 或推定責任，而很可能需要以代表經濟
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a 利益的資源流出抵償此等責任，且有關
reliable estimate of the amount of obligation can be made. Expenditures for which 責任金額可予可靠估計時，則確認撥
a provision has been recognised are charged against the related provision in the 備。就已確認撥備之開支於產生有關開
period in which the expenditures are incurred. Provisions are reviewed at the end of 支期間自相關撥備扣除。撥備於各報告
each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Where the 期末獲檢討，並予調整以反映目前最佳
effect of the time value of money is material, the amount provided is the present 估計。如金錢的時間值構成重大影響，
value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. Where 所計提撥備為抵償有關責任所需支付
the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as 的費用現值。如本集團預期撥備會獲報
a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. 銷，則僅在實質上確認報銷時將報銷確
認為獨立資產。
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or 倘不大可能需要經濟利益流出，或不能
the amount cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a contingent 可靠估計有關金額，除非經濟利益流出
liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible 可能性非常低，否則有關責任會披露為
obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non- 或然負債。有可能需承擔的責任（即一
occurrence of one or more future events are also disclosed as contingent liabilities 項或多項未來事件發生或不發生時方確
unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. 立存有責任），除非經濟利益流出可能
性非常低，否則亦會披露為或然負債。
130 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Government grants 政府補貼
Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable 倘有合理保證將可獲得政府補貼，且符
assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied 合所有附帶條件，則補貼可按公平值確
with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over 認。倘補貼與開支項目有關，則在必須
the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 將補貼於擬補償的成本支出期間有系統
it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is 地確認為收入。當補貼與某項資產相關
recognised as a deduction from the carrying amount of the relevant asset and is 時，公平值自資產賬面值扣除並按相關
released to profit or loss over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal 資產之預期可使用年期每年等額轉撥至
annual instalments. 損益。
Leases 租賃
The Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at inception of 本集團於合約開始時評核合約是否屬於
the contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right 或包含租賃。倘合約賦予權利於一段時
to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 間內控制已識別資產的用途以換取代
consideration. 價，則該合約為租賃或包含租賃。
As lessee 作為承租人
The Group applies the recognition exemption to short-term leases and low-value 本集團對短期租賃及低價值租賃確認豁
asset leases. Lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an 免。與該等租賃相關的租賃付款以直線
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 法按租期確認為開支。
The Group has elected not to separate non-lease components from lease 本集團已選擇不將非租賃成分與租賃成
components, and accounts for each lease component and any associated non-lease 分分拆，而是將每項租賃成分與任何相
components as a single lease component. 關非租賃成分以單一租賃部分入賬。
The Group accounts for each lease component within a lease contract as a lease 本集團對租賃合約中每項租賃成分獨立
separately. The Group allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease 記賬為租賃。本集團根據租賃成分之相
component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the lease component 對獨立價格及（如適用）非租賃成分之相
and, where applicable, the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components. 對獨立價格總額將合約代價分配至各租
賃成分。
Amounts payable by the Group that do not give rise to a separate component are 不會產生獨立成分的本集團應付金額視
considered to be part of the total consideration that is allocated to the separately 作分配至合約獨立獲識別成分之代價總
identified components of the contract. 額一部分。
Annual Report 2021 年報 131IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessee (continued) 作為承租人（續）
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the commencement 本集團於租賃開始時確認使用權資產及
date of the lease. 租賃負債。
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises: 使用權資產初步按成本計量，其包括：
(a) the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability; (a) 租賃負債之初步計量金額；
(b) any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any (b) 於開始日期或之前作出之任何租
lease incentives received; 賃付款，減任何已收租賃優惠；
(c) any initial direct costs incurred by the Group; and (c) 本集團產生之任何初步直接成
本；及
(d) an estimate of costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling and removing (d) 本集團於拆除及拆遷相關資產、
the underlying asset, restoring the site on which it is located or restoring the 復原相關資產所在場地或復原相
underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the 關資產至租賃條款及條件所規定
lease, unless those costs are incurred to produce inventories. 之狀況時估計所產生之成本（除非
該等成本為生產存貨而產生）。
Subsequently, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less any accumulated 其後，使用權資產按成本計量，減任何
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses and adjusted for any 累計折舊及減值虧損，並就租賃負債之
remeasurement of the lease liability. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis 任何重新計量作出調整。折舊以直線法
over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets. 按租期與資產之估計可使用年期之間較
短者計提。
If a property held by the Group as a right-of-use asset and occupied by the Group 本集團持作使用權資產之物業及本集團
as an owner-occupied property becomes an investment property. The accounting 佔用作為業主佔用物業之物業成為投資
policy for investment properties is stated in the earlier part of this note. The Group 物業。投資物業的會計政策於本附註的
presents right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of investment property as 較前部分進行了說明。本集團於綜合財
a separate line item on the consolidated statement of financial position. Right-of-use 務狀況表中將不符合投資物業定義之使
assets that meet the definition of investment property is presented within “Investment 用權資產呈列為單獨項目。符合投資物
properties”. 業定義的使用權資產於「投資物業」內呈
列。
132 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessee (continued) 作為承租人（續）
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that 租賃負債初步按於合約開始日期未支付
are not paid at the commencement date of the contract. 租賃付款現值計量。
The lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the 計量租賃負債計及的租賃付款包括就開
following payments for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term 始日期未支付相關資產之使用權之下列
that are not paid at the commencement date: 款項：
(a) fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease (a) 固定付款（包括實質固定付款）減
incentives receivable; 任何應收租賃優惠；
(b) variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate; (b) 隨指數或利率浮動之可變租賃付
款；
(c) amounts expected to be payable under residual value guarantees; (c) 根據殘餘值保證預期應付款項；
(d) exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to (d) 購買權行使價（倘本集團合理確定
exercise that option; and 會行使該選擇權）；及
(e) payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the (e) 為終止租賃而支付之罰金（倘租賃
Group exercising an option to terminate the lease. 條款反映正行使終止租賃之選擇
權）。
The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or 租賃付款採用租賃隱含利率貼現或（倘
where it is not readily determinable, the incremental borrowing rate of the lessee. 不能容易釐定）承租人之遞增借款率。
Subsequently, the lease liability is measured by increasing the carrying amount to 其後，租賃負債之計量方法為增加賬面
reflect interest on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect 值以反映租賃負債之利息及扣減賬面值
the lease payments made. 以反映所作租賃付款。
The lease liability is remeasured using a revised discount rate when there are 如租期變動或重新評核本集團是否合理
changes to the lease payments arising from a change in the lease term or the 確定行使購買權、續約權或終止權而產
reassessment of whether the Group will be reasonably certain to exercise a 生租賃付款變動，則租賃負債採用經修
purchase, extension or termination option. 訂貼現率重新計量。
Annual Report 2021 年報 133IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessee (continued) 作為承租人（續）
The lease liability is remeasured by using the original discount rate when there is 如殘餘值保證、實質固定付款或未來租
a change in the residual value guarantee, the in-substance fixed lease payments or 賃付款因指數或利率變動（浮動息率除
the future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or a rate (other than 外）而出現變動，則租賃負債採用原有
floating interest rate). In case of a change in future lease payments resulting from 貼現率重新計量。如浮動息率變動導致
a change in floating interest rates, the Group remeasures the lease liability using a 未來租賃付款變動，則本集團採用經修
revised discount rate. 訂貼現率重新計量租賃負債。
The Group recognises the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an 本集團將重新計量租賃負債金額確認為
adjustment to the right-of-use asset. If the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset 對使用權資產作出調整。倘使用權資產
is reduced to zero and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease 之賬面值減至零，且租賃負債計量進一
liability, the Group recognises any remaining amount of the remeasurement in profit 步減少，則本集團將任何重新計量之剩
or loss. 餘金額確認於損益。
A lease modification is accounted for as a separate lease if: 在下列情況下，租賃修訂按獨立租賃記
賬：
(a) the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use (a) 修訂透過增加一項或以上相關資
one or more underlying assets; and 產之使用權增加租賃範圍；及
(b) the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate (b) 租賃代價以增加範圍單獨價格相
with the stand-alone price for the increase in scope and any appropriate 等金額及為反映具體合約情況之
adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of the 任何適當單獨價格調整的幅度增
particular contract. 加。
When a lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease, at the effective 如租賃修訂並非按獨立租賃記賬，則於
date of the lease modification, 租賃修訂生效日期，
(a) the Group allocates the consideration in the modified contract on the basis (a) 本集團按上述相對單獨價格基準
of relative stand-alone price as described above. 分配經修訂合約的代價。
(b) the Group determines the lease term of the modified contract. (b) 本集團確定經修訂合約的租期。
(c) the Group remeasures the lease liability by discounting the revised lease (c) 本集團透過採用經修訂貼現率按
payments using a revised discount rate over the revised lease term. 經修訂租期貼現經修訂租賃付款
重新計量租賃負債。
134 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessee (continued) 作為承租人（續）
(d) for lease modifications that decrease the scope of the lease, the Group (d) 就減少租賃範圍之租賃修訂，本
accounts for the remeasurement of the lease liability by decreasing the 集團透過扣減使用權資產之賬面
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset to reflect the partial or full 值以反映租賃部分或全面終止，
termination of the lease and recognising any gain or loss relating to the partial 並將任何與租賃部分或全面終止
or full termination of the lease in profit or loss. 相關之收益或虧損確認於損益，
將重新計量租賃負債記賬。
(e) for all other lease modifications, the Group accounts for the remeasurement (e) 就所有其他租賃修訂，本集團透
of the lease liability by making a corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use 過對使用權資產作相應調整將重
asset. 新計量租賃負債記賬。
The Group has applied the practical expedient provided in Amendments to HKFRS 本集團已應用香港財務報告準則第16號
16: COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions, which has been early adopted by the （修訂本）：與COVID-19相關的租金優
Group since the year ended 31 December 2020, and does not assess whether 惠中載明的可行權益方法（本集團已自
eligible rent concessions occurring as a direct consequence of the COVID-19 截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度
pandemic are lease modification. The Group accounts for any change in lease 起提早採納），且不評估因COVID-19疫
payments resulting from the rent concession the same way it would account for the 情直接產生的合資格租金優惠是否為租
change applying HKFRS 16 if the change were not a lease modification. 賃修訂。本集團將租金優惠導致租賃付
款的任何變動入賬的方式與其採用香港
財務報告準則第16號產生的變動入賬的
方式相同，前提為有關變動並非租賃修
訂。
The practical expedient applies only to rent concessions occurring as a direct 該可行權宜方法僅適用於COVID-19疫
consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic and only if all of the following conditions 情直接產生的租金優惠及滿足以下所有
are met: 條件的租金優惠：
(a) the change in lease payments results in revised consideration for the lease (a) 租賃付款變動引致的經修訂租賃
that is substantially the same as, or less than, the consideration for the lease 代價大致上等同或低於緊接變動
immediately preceding the change; 前的租賃代價；
(b) any reduction in lease payments affects only payments originally due on or (b) 租賃付款的任何減少僅影響原定
before 30 June 2021; and 於二零二一年六月三十日或之前
到期的款項；及
(c) there is no substantive change to other terms and conditions of the lease. (c) 租賃的其他條款及條件並無實質
變動。
Annual Report 2021 年報 135IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessee (continued) 作為承租人（續）
The Group has applied the practical expedient consistently to all eligible rent 本集團已就具有類似特點及於類似情況
concessions with similar characteristics and in similar circumstances. 下的所有合資格租金優惠一致採用可行
權益方法。
As lessor 作為出租人
The Group classifies each of its leases as either a finance lease or an operating lease 本集團於租賃開始日期將每項租賃分類
at the inception date of the lease. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers 為融資租賃或經營租賃。倘租賃實際上
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. 將相關資產所有權附帶的所有風險及回
All other leases are classified as operating leases. 報轉移，則獲分類為融資租賃。所有其
他租賃獲分類為經營租賃。
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and 如本集團為中間出租人，則將首租與分
sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as an operating lease if 租記賬為兩項獨立合約。倘首租為本集
the head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group has applied the recognition 團應用確認豁免之短期租賃，則分租獲
exemption. Otherwise, the sublease is classified as a finance lease or an operating 分類為經營租賃。否則，分租經參考首
lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. 租產生之使用權資產獲分類為融資租賃
或經營租賃。
The Group accounts for each lease component within a lease contract as a lease 本集團對租賃合約中每項租賃成分記賬
separately from non-lease components of the contract. The Group allocates the 為與該合約之非租賃成分獨立之租賃。
consideration in the contract to each lease component on a relative stand-alone 本集團按相對獨立價格基準將合約代價
price basis. 分配至各租賃成分。
As lessor – finance lease 作為出租人－融資租賃
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at 根據融資租賃應收承租人之款項按本集
the amount of the Group’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is 團於有關租賃之投資淨額記賬為應收款
allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on 項。融資租賃收入以反映本集團就租賃
the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. The Group applies 之投資淨額收取固定定期回報率分配至
the derecognition and impairment requirements in HKFRS 9 to the net investment 會計期間。本集團對融資租賃之投資淨
in the finance lease. 額應用香港財務報告準則第9號之終止
確認及減值規定。
136 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessor (continued) 作為出租人（續）
As lessor – finance lease (continued) 作為出租人－融資租賃（續）
The Group accounts for a modification to a finance lease as a separate lease if both: 在下列情況均出現時，本集團對融資租
賃修訂記賬為獨立租賃：
(a) the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use (a) 修訂透過增加一項或以上相關資
one or more underlying assets; and 產之使用權增加租賃範圍；及
(b) the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate (b) 租賃代價以增加範圍單獨價格相
with the stand-alone price for the increase in scope and any appropriate 等金額及為反映具體合約情況之
adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of the 任何適當單獨價格調整的幅度增
particular contract. 加。
For a modification to a finance lease that is not accounted for as a separate lease, 就並非記賬為獨立租賃之融資租賃修
the Group accounts for the modification as follows: 訂，本集團按以下方式將修訂記賬：
(a) if the lease would have been classified as an operating lease had the (a) 倘修訂於開始日期已生效，租賃
modification been in effect at the inception date, the Group: 即會獲分類為經營租賃，則本集
團：
(i) accounts for the lease modification as a new lease from the effective (i) 自修訂生效日期將租賃修
date of the modification; and 訂記賬為新訂租賃；及
(ii) measures the carrying amount of the underlying asset as the net (ii) 計量相關資產之賬面值，
investment in the lease immediately before the effective date of the 作為緊接租賃修訂日期前
lease modification. 對租賃之投資淨額。
(b) otherwise, the Group applies the requirements of HKFRS 9. (b) 否則，本集團應用香港財務報告
準則第9號之規定。
Annual Report 2021 年報 137IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Leases (continued) 租賃（續）
As lessor (continued) 作為出租人（續）
As lessor – operating lease 作為出租人－經營租賃
The Group applies the derecognition and impairment requirements in HKFRS 9 to 本集團對經營租賃之應收款項應用香港
the operating lease receivables. 財務報告準則第9號之終止確認及減值
規定。
A modification to an operating lease is accounted for as a new lease from the 經營租賃修訂自修訂生效日期記賬為新
effective date of the modification, considering any prepaid or accrued lease 訂租賃，並將與原有租賃相關之任何預
payments relating to the original lease as part of the lease payments for the new 付或應計租賃付款計作新訂租賃之部分
lease. 租賃付款。
Employee benefits 僱員福利
Short-term employee benefits 短期僱員福利
Short-term employee benefits are recognised at the undiscounted amount of the 短期僱員福利乃按僱員提供服務時預期
benefits expected to be paid as and when employees rendered the services. All 將予支付之未貼現福利金額確認。所有
short-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense unless another HKFRS 短期僱員福利均確認為開支，除非香港
requires or permits the inclusion of the benefit in the cost of an asset. 財務報告準則要求或允許將福利計入資
產的成本。
A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees (such as wages and 僱員之應計福利（例如工資及薪金、年
salaries, annual leave and sick leave) after deducting any amount already paid. 假及病假）乃於扣減任何已付金額後確
認負債。
Retirement benefit costs 退休福利費用
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans, Mandatory Provident 向界定供款退休金計劃、強制性公積金
Fund Scheme and state-managed retirement benefits scheme (together referred 計劃及國家管理退休褔利計劃（統稱「退
to the “Retirement Schemes”) are recognised as expenses when employees have 休計劃」）之供款乃當僱員提供相關可獲
rendered service entitling them to the contributions. 得該供款之服務時確認為支出。
138 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Taxation 稅項
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred 所得稅開支指即期應付稅項及遞延稅項
tax. 之總和。
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit 即期應付稅項乃按本期應課稅溢利計
differs from loss before taxation as reported in the consolidated statement of profit 算。應課稅溢利與綜合損益及其他全面
or loss and other comprehensive income because of income or expense that are 收益表中所報的除稅前虧損不同，乃由
taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. 於前者不包括其他年度之應課稅或可扣
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 稅的收入或開支，並且不包括毋須課稅
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 或不能扣稅之項目。本集團之即期稅項
負債乃採用於報告期末已實施或實質上
已實施之稅率計算。
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts 遞延稅項乃按綜合財務報表內資產及負
of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding 債賬面值與計算應課稅溢利所用相應稅
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are 基之差額而確認。遞延稅項負債一般會
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are 就所有應課稅暫時差額確認，而遞延稅
generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that 項資產一般會就所有可扣稅暫時差額在
it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible 很大機會出現應課稅溢利而可用以抵銷
temporary differences can be utilised. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 可扣減暫時差額時確認。倘暫時差額自
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition (other than 不影響應課稅溢利或會計溢利之交易的
in a business combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 資產及負債之初步確認（業務合併除外）
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. In addition, deferred tax liabilities are 而產生，則不會確認該等遞延稅項資產
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of 及負債。此外，若暫時差額是源自商譽
goodwill. 之首次確認，則不確認遞延稅項負債。
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary difference associated 遞延稅項負債就附屬公司的投資所產生
with investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the 之應課稅暫時差額確認入賬，惟本集團
reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 可控制暫時差額之撥回而暫時差額不大
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible 可能於可預見將來撥回則除外。與該等
temporary differences associated with such investments are only recognised to the 投資相關之可扣稅暫時差額所產生之遞
extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to 延稅項資產僅於很大機會有足夠應課稅
utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in 溢利可以使用暫時差額之利益且預計於
the foreseeable future. 可見將來可予撥回時確認。
Annual Report 2021 年報 139IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Taxation (continued) 稅項（續）
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting 遞延稅項資產之賬面值於報告期末檢
period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 討，並於不大可能再有足夠應課稅溢利
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 去扣減該項資產之全部或部分之情況作
出調減。
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to 遞延稅項資產及負債按預期於償還負債
apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on 或資產變現期間適用之稅率計算，而有
tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end 關稅率之基準為於報告期末已實施或實
of the reporting period. 質上已實施之稅率（及稅法）。
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences 遞延稅項負債及資產之計量反映本集團
that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the 預期於報告期末收回或償還資產及負債
reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. 賬面值所產生之稅務後果。
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate 即期及遞延稅項於損益確認，惟當與於
to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in 其他全面收益或直接於權益確認之項目
which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive 有關之情況下，即期及遞延稅項則同樣
income or directly in equity, respectively. 分別於其他全面收益或直接於權益中確
認。
Related parties 關聯方
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group. 關聯方為與本集團有關聯的人士或實
體。
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group if (a) 在下列情況下，有關人士或該人
that person: 士之直系親屬視為與本集團有關
聯：
(i) has control or joint control over the Group; (i) 擁有或與他人共同擁有本
集團的控制權；
(ii) has significant influence over the Group; or (ii) 對本集團發揮重大影響
力；或
(iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or of the (iii) 為本集團或其控股公司主
holding company of the Group. 要管理人員的其中一名成
員。
140 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Related parties (continued) 關聯方（續）
(b) An entity is related to the Group if any of the following conditions applies: (b) 在有關實體符合下列任何一項條
件情況下，有關實體視為與本集
團有關聯：
(i) the entity and the Group are members of the same group (which (i) 該實體與本集團屬同一集
means that each holding company, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary is 團（即各控股公司、附屬公
related to the others). 司及同系附屬公司）之成員
公司。
(ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an (ii) 一間實體為其他實體之一
associate or joint venture of a member of a group of which the other 間聯營公司或合營公司（或
entity is a member). 其他實體之同系附屬公司
之聯營公司或合營公司）。
(iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party. (iii) 兩間實體均為同一第三方
之合營公司。
(iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an (iv) 一間實體為第三方實體之
associate of the third entity. 合營公司而另一實體為該
第三方實體之聯營公司。
(v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of (v) 該實體為本集團或一間與
employees of either the Group or an entity related to the Group. 本集團有關聯之實體就僱
If the Group is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also 員的福利而設的離職福利
related to the Group. 計劃。倘本集團本身為該
計劃，則資助僱主亦與本
集團有關聯。
(vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a). (vi) 該實體受(a)項所識別人士
控制或受共同控制。
(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or (vii) 於(a)(i)項所識別人士對實
is a member of the key management personnel of the entity (or of a 體有重大影響或屬該實體
holding company of the entity). （或該實體控股公司）主要
管理人員的其中一名成員。
(viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides (viii) 實體或其所屬集團旗下任
key management personnel services to the Group or to the holding 何成員公司向本集團或本
company of the Group. 集團母公司提供主要管理
人員服務。
Annual Report 2021 年報 141IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要會計政策（續）
Related parties (continued) 關聯方（續）
Close members of the family of a person are those family members who may be 有關人士之家族近親為可預期在與有關
expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person in their dealings with the 實體交易時影響有關人士或受有關人士
entity and include: 影響，包括：
(a) that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner; (a) 有關人士之子女及配偶或同居伴
侶；
(b) children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and (b) 有關人士之配偶或同居伴侶的子
女；及
(c) dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or domestic partner. (c) 有關人士或有關人士之配偶或同
居伴侶的受養人。
In the definition of a related party, an associate includes subsidiaries of the associate 就關聯方定義而言，聯繫人包括聯繫人
and a joint venture includes subsidiaries of the joint venture. 之附屬公司，及合營公司包括合營公司
之附屬公司。
Segment reporting 分部匯報
Operating segments, and the amounts of each segment item reported in the 經營分部及綜合財務報表所匯報的各分
consolidated financial statements, are identified from the financial information 部項目金額取自向本集團最高行政管理
provided regularly to Group’s most senior executive management for the purpose 人員定期匯報以便其向本集團各業務及
of allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, the Group’s various 區域分配資源以及評估該等業務及區域
lines of business and geographical locations. 表現的財務資料。
Individual material operating segments are not aggregated for financial reporting 個別重大經營分部不會為財務報告而合
purposes unless the segments have similar economic characteristics and are similar in 併，除非相關分部具有類似的經濟特
respect of the nature of products and services, the nature of production processes, 徵，且產品及服務性質、生產流程性
the type or class of customers, the methods used to distribute the products or 質、客戶類型或類別、分銷產品或提供
provide the services, and the nature of the regulatory environment. Operating 服務所用方法及監管環境的性質相似。
segments which are not individually material may be aggregated if they share a 符合上述多數標準的非個別重大經營分
majority of these criteria. 部可予合併。
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting 經營分部與向主要營運決策人（「主要營
provided to the chief operating decision-maker (“CODM”). The Company’s 運決策人」）內部匯報一致方式匯報。本
executive directors and the chief executive officer, who is responsible for allocating 公司之執行董事及行政總裁負責分配資
resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, have been 源及評估經營分部表現，並已獲識別為
identified as the CODM that make strategic decisions. 作策略性決定的主要營運決策人。
142 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
5. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES 5. 估計涉及不確定性的主要來源
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 4 在應用綜合財務報表附註4所述本集團
to the consolidated financial statements, the management of the Group is required 會計政策時，本集團管理層須就不容易
to make various estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets 從其他來源中明顯辨別出的資產及負債
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 的賬面值作出多項估計及假設。該等估
associated assumptions are based on historical experiences, and other factors that 計及相關假設乃基於過往經驗及其他相
are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 關因素而作出。實際結果或會與該等估
計不同。
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 估計及相關假設乃按持續基準作檢討。
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate 倘會計估計的修訂僅影響估計作出修訂
is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and 的期間，則修訂於該期間內確認，或倘
future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 修訂影響本期間或未來期間，則修訂於
作出修訂期間及未來期間內確認。
The followings are the key assumptions concerning the future, and key sources of 以下是有關將來的主要假設與及其他於
estimation uncertainties at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant 報告期末不確定性的估計的主要來源，
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 可能構成於下一個財政報告期間需就資
within the next financial reporting period. 產及負債賬面值作出重大調整之重大風
險。
Going concern basis 持續經營基準
As disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the consolidated 誠如綜合財務報表附註2所披露，綜合
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The 財務報表乃按持續經營基準編製。持續
appropriateness of the going concern basis is assessed after taking into consideration 經營基準是否適當，乃經考慮有關本集
all relevant available information about future of the Group, including cash flow 團未來之所有相關及可取閱資料（包括
forecasts of the Group and financial support from Huaneng and its controlling 本集團之現金流預測及華能及其控股股
shareholder. Such measures inherently involve uncertainties. The future outcome 東之財務支持）後作評估。該等措施本
of aforesaid events and conditions could differ significantly and hence render the 質上涉及不確定性。上述事項及情況之
adoption of the going concern basis inappropriate. 未來結果可能大有逕庭，致使採用持續
經營基準不再適當。
Annual Report 2021 年報 143IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
5. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES (continued) 5. 估計涉及不確定性的主要來源（續）
Discount rates for calculating lease liabilities – as lessee 用於計算租賃負債之貼現率－作為承租
人
The Group uses the lessee’s incremental borrowing rates to discount future lease 由於租賃隱含利率不容易釐定，本集團
payments since interest rates implicit in the leases are not readily determinable. 使用承租人之遞增借款率貼現未來租賃
In determining the discounts rates for its leases, the Group refers to a rate that is 付款。本集團於釐定租賃之貼現率時參
readily observable as the starting point and then applies judgement and adjusts such 考容易觀察的利率作為起點，其後應用
observable rate to determine the incremental borrowing rate. 判斷調整該可觀察利率，以釐定遞增借
款率。
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and right-of- 物業、機器及設備、投資物業以及使用
use assets 權資產減值
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for property, 本集團於報告期末評估物業、機器及設
plant and equipment, investment properties and right-of-use assets at the end of 備、投資物業及使用權資產是否出現減
the reporting period. Assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators 值跡象。如有跡象顯示賬面值未必可收
that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the 回，則對資產進行減值測試。如某一項
carrying value of an asset or assets group exceeds its recoverable amount, which is 資產或資產組別之賬面值超出其可收回
the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use. For property, 金額（即公平值減出售成本與使用價值
plant and equipment, the fair value less costs of disposal was determined by the 之間較高者），則存在減值。就物業、
management of the Group using the depreciated replacement cost approach and/ 機器及設備而言，公平值減出售成本由
or market comparable approach, as appropriate. Fair value which is determined 本集團管理層採用折舊重置成本法及╱
by using depreciated replacement cost approach requires an estimation of new 或市場可比較法釐定（視乎適用）。透過
replacement cost of the assets from which deductions are then made to allow for 採用折舊重置成本法釐定公平值需估計
physical deterioration and all forms of obsolescence and optimisation. The fair value 有關資產之新重置成本，再從中作出扣
using market comparable approach is based on available data from binding sales 減，以計及老化及所有形式的陳舊及優
transactions in an arm’s length transaction of similar assets or observable market 化。採用市場可比較法釐定公平值乃根
prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. For investment properties 據來自對類似資產進行公平且具約束力
and right-of-use assets, the determination of the fair value less costs of disposal was 銷售交易之可查閱數據或可觀察市價，
based on income capitalisation approach which involves estimations and assumptions 減除出售有關資產之遞增成本。就投資
in determining rental income derived from market participant’s perspective with 物業及使用權資產而言，於以合適的資
appropriate capitalisation rate. 本化比率釐定市場參與者產生的租金收
入時，公平值減出售成本乃根據收入資
本化法釐定，其涉及估計及假設。
144 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
5. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES (continued) 5. 估計涉及不確定性的主要來源（續）
Allowance for inventories 存貨撥備
The management of the Group reviews the ageing and conditions of the inventories 本集團管理層於報告期末檢討存貨的賬
at the end of the reporting period and assess the adequacy of the impairment 齡及狀況，並評估因市場狀況及技術改
provision for those inventories which are obsolete or/and slow-moving identified 變而不再適合生產或在市場上銷售的陳
as no longer suitable for use in production nor saleable in the market as a result 舊或╱及呆滯存貨的減值準備是否充
of change in the market conditions and technology. Estimation of net realisable 足。存貨可變現值的估算涉及對存貨項
value of inventory involves judgement on the conditions and usefulness of items of 目的狀況及有用情況的判斷。倘可變現
inventories. Where the expectation on the net realisable value is lower than the 淨值預計低於若干項目的成本時，可能
cost for certain items, a write-off or write-down of inventories may arise. 會產生存貨撇銷或撇減。
Loss allowance for ECL on trade receivables 應收賬款預期信貸虧損之虧損撥備
The Group recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables, using a provision matrix 本集團使用基於本集團過往信貸虧損經
based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are 驗的撥備矩陣確認應收賬款之全期預期
specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the 信貸虧損，並就債務人特有之因素、總
current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date. The 體經濟狀況及對報告日期狀況之當前
amount of the loss allowance based on ECL model is measured as the difference 及預測方向之評估作出調整。基於預期
between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance with 信貸虧損模式之虧損撥備金額乃作為根
the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at 據合約應付本集團之所有合約現金流量
the effective interest rate determined at initial recognition. Where the future flows 與本集團預期收取並按初步確認時釐定
are less than expected or being revised downward due to changes in facts and 之實際利率折現之所有現金流量之間之
circumstances, a material impairment loss may arise. In addition, trade receivables 差額計量。倘未來流量低於預期，或因
with credit-impaired are assessed for ECL individually. 事實及情況變動而被調低，則可能產生
重大減值虧損。此外，產生信貸減值之
應收賬款之預期信貸虧損乃個別進行評
估。
Annual Report 2021 年報 145IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION 6. 收益及分部資料
Revenue represents the amounts received and receivable for goods sold by 收益代表本集團向外部企業客戶出售產
the Group to outside corporate customers, net of sales related taxes. Revenue 品而已收及應收之款項，扣除相關銷售
represents mainly Oregon Scientific branded sales (“Branded Sales”) and original 稅。收益主要代表Oregon Scientific品牌
equipment manufacturer and original design manufacturer sales (“OEM/ODM 銷售（「品牌銷售」）及原設備製造及原設
Sales”). The revenue is disaggregated below: 計製造銷售（「原設備製造╱原設計製造
銷售」）。收益分解如下：
Smart learning, Connected
and immersive home and Health and
technology communications wellness Others Total
智能教育
與學習 智能家居 健康及保健 其他 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年
十二月三十一日止年度
Timing of revenue recognition 收益確認的時間
A t a point in time 於某時間點 5. 9 6. 4 0. 9 3. 9 17. 1
Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度
Timing of revenue recognition 收益確認的時間
At a point in time 於某時間點 24.7 19.5 6.0 5.2 55.4
146 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部資料（續）
Performance obligations for contracts with customers 就客戶簽訂合約之履約責任
Sales of goods (revenue recognised at a point in time) 商品銷售（於某時間點確認的收益）
The Group sells various consumer electronic products to corporate customers. 本集團向企業客戶銷售各種電子消費產
Revenue is recognised when control of the goods has transferred, being when the 品。收益在貨物控制權轉移時確認，即
goods have been shipped to the customer’s specific location (delivery). Following 貨物已裝運至客戶的特定地點（交付）。
delivery, the customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price 交付後，客戶可以完全自行決定銷售商
to sell the goods, has the primary responsibility when on selling the goods and bears 品的分銷方式和價格，在銷售商品時承
the risks of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods. The normal credit term 擔主要責任，並承擔與貨物相關的陳
for customers is normally up to 45 days upon delivery or payment in advance is 舊和虧損的風險。客戶的正常信貸期通
normally required. 常至多為交付後45天，或通常須提前付
款。
During the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020, all performance obligations 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
for sales of goods are for period of one year or less. As permitted under HKFRS 15, 三十一日止年度，所有銷售商品的履約
the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations as at the end 責任期為一年或以下。如香港財務報告
of the reporting period is not disclosed. 準則第15號所允許，於各報告期末獲分
配至未履行履約責任的交易價格不予披
露。
HKFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the 香港財務報告準則第8號「經營分部」規
basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed 定以本集團之執行董事及行政總裁（即
by the executive directors and chief executive officer, being the CODM, in order 主要營運決策人）在對分部作資源分配
to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. The Group 及評估其表現上所定期審閱的有關本集
operates in four operating and reportable segments, namely smart learning and 團不同部門之內部報告作為確定經營分
immersive technology, connected home and communications, health and wellness as 部之基準。本集團經營四個經營及可
well as others. 報告分部，即智能教育與學習、智能家
居、健康及保健以及其他。
Annual Report 2021 年報 147IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部資料（續）
Segment revenue and results 分部收益及業績
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by operating and 本集團按營運及須匯報分部之收益及業
reportable segments: 績分析如下：
Smart learning, Connected
and immersive home and Health and
technology communications wellness Others Total
智能教育與學習
智能家居 健康及保健 其他 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年
十二月三十一日止年度
Segment revenue 分部收益
Branded sales 品牌銷售 5.9 6.4 0.1 0.1 12.5
OEM/ODM sales 原設備製造╱原設計
製造銷售 – – 0.8 3.8 4.6
Total segment revenue 分部收益總額 5. 9 6. 4 0. 9 3. 9 17. 1
Segment loss 分部虧損 (3.5) (3.8) (5.1) (26.1) (38.5)
Unallocated income 未經分配之收入 6.6
Unallocated expenses 未經分配之開支 (45.6)
F inance costs 融資成本 (6. 7)
Loss before taxation 除稅前虧損 (84. 2)
Smart learning, Connected
and immersive home and Health and
technology communications wellness Others Total
智能教育與學習
智能家居 健康及保健 其他 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度
Segment revenue 分部收益
Branded sales 品牌銷售 24.7 6.0 – – 30.7
OEM/ODM sales 原設備製造╱原設計
製造銷售 – 13.5 6.0 5.2 24.7
Total segment revenue 分部收益總額 24.7 19.5 6.0 5.2 55.4
Segment loss 分部虧損 (9.8) (29.5) (12.1) (10.3) (61.7)
Unallocated income 未經分配之收入 16.2
Unallocated expenses 未經分配之開支 (47.1)
Finance costs 融資成本 (3.2)
Loss before taxation 除稅前虧損 (95.8)
148 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部資料（續）
Segment revenue and results (continued) 分部收益及業績（續）
Segment revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external 上文所呈告之分部收益代表向外部客戶
customers. There were no inter-segment sales for both years. 銷售的收益。兩個年度均無分部間之銷
售。
Segment loss represents the loss incurred by each segment without allocation 分部虧損指各分部所產生之虧損，不包
of interest income, income from subleasing of right-of-use assets, sales of scrap, 括利息收入、分租使用權資產之收入、
other miscellaneous income, unallocated expense such as central administrative 銷售廢料收入、其他雜項收入、未經分
costs, charge of loss allowance on financial assets, provision for losses on litigations, 配之開支，如總部行政成本、扣除金融
depreciation of right-of-use assets, losses from impairment on right-of-use 資產虧損撥備、訴訟虧損撥備、使用權
assets, investment properties and finance costs. This is the measure reported to 資產折舊、使用權資產減值虧損、投資
the Group’s CODM, for the purposes of resource allocation and performance 物業及融資成本作出的分配。此為向本
assessment. 集團主要營運決策人就資源分配及表現
評估作報告之計量方式。
No segment assets and segment liabilities are presented as such amounts are 由於本集團之分部資產及分部負債並未
not reviewed by the Group’s CODM for the purpose of resource allocation and 由本集團之主要營運決策人審閱以分配
performance assessment or otherwise regularly provided to the Group’s CODM. 資源及評估表現或以其他方式定期呈交
本集團之主要營運決策人，故並無呈列
該等資料。
Annual Report 2021 年報 149IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部資料（續）
Other segment information 其他分部資料
Smart learning, Connected
and immersive home and Health and
technology communications wellness Others Total
智能教育
與學習 智能家居 健康及保健 其他 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年
十二月三十一日止年度
Amounts included in the measure of 分部溢利或虧損計入
segment profit or loss: 下列款額：
Depreciation and amortisation 折舊及攤銷
– Property, plant and equipment －物業、機器及設備 1.0 0.9 0.1 0.5 2.5
Impairment loss on advances 預付供應商款項之
to suppliers 減值虧損 – – 0.3 1.6 1.9
R eversal of write-down of inventories 存貨撇減撥回 (0.7) (0.7) (0.1) (0.4) (1.9)
Smart learning, Connected
and immersive home and Health and
technology communications wellness Others Total
智能教育
與學習 智能家居 健康及保健 其他 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度
Amounts included in the measure of 分部溢利或虧損計入
segment profit or loss: 下列款額：
Depreciation and amortisation 折舊及攤銷
– Property, plant and equipment －物業、機器及設備 3.6 2.8 0.9 0.8 8.1
W rite-down of inventories 存貨撇減 2.0 1.6 0.5 0.4 4.5
150 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部資料（續）
Geographical information 地區資料
The Group’s operations are located in Asia Pacific, Europe and Americas 本集團之業務位於亞太區、歐洲及美洲
(representing the United States of America and Latin America). The Group carries （指美利堅合眾國及拉丁美洲）。本集團
out its manufacturing and trading operations in Hong Kong and the People’s 於香港及中華人民共和國（「中國」）進
Republic of China (the “PRC”). The Group also operates marketing offices in 行製造及進行貿易業務。本集團亦在歐
Europe, Americas and other Asia Pacific countries. 洲、美洲及其他亞太區國家設有市場推
廣辦事處。
Information about the Group’s revenue from external customers is presented based 有關本集團來自外界客戶收益的資料乃
on the location of customers are detailed below: 根據客戶所在地呈列，詳情如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
The PRC (country of domicile) 中國（居住國） 0.7 7.0
Asia Pacific (excluding the PRC) 亞太區（不包括中國） 5.6 18.8
Americas 美洲 6.5 13.9
Europe 歐洲 3.6 15.3
O thers 其 他 0.7 0.4
17.1 55.4
Over 95% (2020: 95%) of non-current assets of the Group are located in the PRC. 本集團之逾95%（二零二零年：95%）非
流動資產位於中國。
Annual Report 2021 年報 151IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部資料（續）
Information about major customers 主要客戶資料
Revenue from a customer contributing over 10% of the total revenue of the Group is 為本集團貢獻逾10%總收益之客戶之收
as follows: 益如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
% %
Customer “A” 客戶「A」 10 28
Customer “B” 客戶「B」 –* 14
Customer “C” 客戶「C」 21 –*
Customer “D” 客戶「D」 13 –*
C ustomer “E” 客 戶「E」 11 –*
Revenue from Customer “A” was generated from (i) connected home and 來自客戶「A」之收益乃來自(i)智能家居
communications segment, (ii) smart learning, and immersive technology segment 分部，(ii)智能教育與學習分部及(iii)其
and (iii) others segment; revenue from Customer “B” was generated from (i) 他分部；來自客戶「B」之收益乃來自(i)
connected home and communications segment and (ii) others segment; revenue 智能家居分部及(ii)其他分部；來自客戶
from Customer “C” was generated from (i) connected home and communications 「C」之收益乃來自(i)智能家居分部及(ii)
segment and (ii) smart learning, and immersive technology segment; revenue from 智能教育與學習分部；來自客戶「D」之
Customer “D” was generated from (i) smart learning, and immersive technology 收益乃來自(i)智能教育與學習分部；來
segment; revenue from Customer “E” was generated from (i) health and wellness 自客戶「E」之收益乃來自(i)健康及保健
segment and (ii) others segment. 分部及(ii)其他分部。
* The corresponding revenue did not contribute 10% or more of the total revenue of * 於有關年度相應收益佔本集團收益總
the Group during the respective year. 額不及10%或以上。
152 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
7. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER LOSSES, NET 7. 其他收入及其他虧損，淨額
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Other income 其他收入
Finance income on the net investment 融資租賃投資淨額融資收入
in finance leases 1.6 0.2
Gain on derecognition of right-of-use assets 終止確認與總租賃有關的使用權
relating to the head leases 資產收益 – 1.3
Income from subleasing of right-of-use assets 投資物業╱經營租賃租用物業項下
which categorised under investment properties/ 分類的使用權資產的分租收入
rented premises under operating leases 1.9 10.9
Sales of scraps 銷售廢料 1.6 –
Subsidy income 補貼收入 0.6 1.5
O thers 其 他 0.9 2.3
6.6 16.2
Other losses, net 其他虧損，淨額
Exchange gain (loss), net 匯兌收益（虧損），淨額 0.9 (1.4)
P rovision for losses on litigations, net (note 32) 訴 訟虧損撥備，淨額（附註32） (1.5) (3.3)
(0.6) (4.7)
8. CHARGE OF LOSS ALLOWANCE ON FINANCIAL ASSETS 8. 扣除金融資產虧損撥備
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Charge of loss allowance 扣除虧損撥備
– on trade receivables －應收賬款 0.1 18.2
– on finance lease receivables －融資租賃應收款項 8.6 –
8.7 18.2
Details of loss allowance on trade receivables and finance lease receivables for 有關截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二
the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are set out in note 29 to the 月三十一日止年度應收賬款及融資租賃
consolidated financial statements. 應收款項的虧損撥備之詳情載於綜合財
務報表附註29。
Annual Report 2021 年報 153IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
9. LOSS BEFORE TAXATION 9. 除稅前虧損
This is stated after charging (crediting): 經扣除（計入）下列各項呈列：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Finance costs 融資成本
Interest on borrowings 借款利息 2.9 2.6
I nterest on lease liabilities 租 賃負債利息 3.8 0.6
6.7 3.2
Staff costs 員工成本
Directors’ emoluments (note 10) 董事酬金（附註10） 0.4 0.4
Retirement benefits scheme contributions 其他員工退休福利計劃供款（附註）
for other staff (note) 9.4 3.8
S alaries and other benefits for other staff 其 他員工之工資及其他福利 52.4 63.2
T otal staff costs* 員 工成本總額* 62.2 67.4
Losses from impairment 減值虧損
Loss from impairment of advances to suppliers 預付供應商款項之減值虧損 1.9 –
Loss from impairment of investment properties 投資物業減值虧損 1.0 –
L oss from impairment of right-of-use assets 使 用權資產減值虧損 8.9 –
T otal losses from impairment 減 值虧損總額 11.8 –
Auditor’s remuneration 核數師酬金
– Audit services －審計服務 1.2 1.2
– Non-audit services －非審計服務 0.2 0.1
Cost of inventories 存貨成本 15.3 46.6
(Reversal of write-down) Write-down of inventories 存貨（撇減撥回）撇減
(included in “Cost of goods sold”) （計入「銷售成本」） (1.9) 4.5
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (included in 使用權資產折舊
“General administrative expenses”) （計入「一般行政開支」） 14.7 7.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment* 物業、機器及設備折舊* 2.5 8.1
Depreciation of investment properties (included in 投資物業折舊
“General administrative expenses”) （計入「一般行政開支」） 1.5 0.1
Rental expenses recognised under short-term leases 根據短期租賃確認之租金開支
(included in “General administrative expenses” （計入「一般行政開支」及
and “Cost of goods sold”) 「銷售成本」） – 16.7
* The amounts include staff costs and depreciation of property, plant and equipment * 有關金額包括於損益扣除並於「存貨」
charged to profit or loss and capitalised in “Inventories”, as appropriate. 資本化之員工成本及物業、機器及設備折舊（如適用）。
Note: For the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Group had no forfeited 附註：截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
contributions available to reduce its contribution to the Retirement Schemes in future 三十一日止年度，本集團並無已沒收
years. In addition, the increment of contributions to defined contribution retirement 供款可用於扣減未來年度之退休計劃
schemes was mainly attributable to the absence of exemption of social security 供款。此外，界定供款退休計劃供款
insurance contributions in the PRC during the year (2020: an exemption of social 增加乃主要歸因於年內中國並無豁免
security insurance contributions in the PRC from February 2020 to December 2020). 社保保險供款（二零二零年：中國自二零二零年二月至二零二零年十二月豁免社保保險供款）。
154 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS 10. 董事及主要行政人員酬金
(a) Directors’ emoluments (a) 董事酬金
The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the 本公司董事已收或應收之酬金總
directors of the Company are as follows: 額如下：
Retirement
Salaries benefits
and scheme
Fees allowances contributions Total
退休福利
袍金 薪金及津貼 計劃供款 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年
十二月三十一日止年度
Executive director: 執行董事：
Mr. Zhu Yongning 朱永寧先生 – – – –
Non-executive director: 非執行董事：
Mr. Cui Xiao (note 1) 崔嘯先生（附註1） – – – –
Independent non-executive directors: 獨立非執行董事：
Mr. Xu Jinwen 徐錦文先生 0.2 – – 0.2
Mr. Zhou Meilin 周美林先生 0.1 – – 0.1
Mr. Zhou Rui 周銳先生 0.1 – – 0.1
0.4 – – 0.4
Annual Report 2021 年報 155IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS (continued) 10. 董事及主要行政人員酬金（續）
(a) Directors’ emoluments (continued) (a) 董事酬金（續）
Retirement
Salaries benefits
and scheme
Fees allowances contributions Total
退休福利
袍金 薪金及津貼 計劃供款 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度
Executive director: 執行董事：
Mr. Zhu Yongning 朱永寧先生 – – – –
Non-executive directors: 非執行董事：
Mr. Song Rongrong (note 2) 宋榮榮先生（附註2） – – – –
Ms. Wu Qing (note 3) 吳清女士（附註3） – – – –
Mr. Cui Xiao (note 1) 崔嘯先生（附註1） – – – –
Independent non-executive directors: 獨立非執行董事：
Mr. Xu Jinwen 徐錦文先生 0.2 – – 0.2
Mr. Zhou Meilin 周美林先生 0.1 – – 0.1
Mr. Zhou Rui 周銳先生 0.1 – – 0.1
0.4 – – 0.4
156 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS (continued) 10. 董事及主要行政人員酬金（續）
(a) Directors’ emoluments (continued) (a) 董事酬金（續）
Note 1: Mr. Cui Xiao was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company 附註1： 崔嘯先生於二零二零年八
on 25 August 2020. 月二十五日獲委任為本公
司非執行董事。
Note 2: Mr. Song Rongrong resigned as a non-executive director of the Company 附註2： 宋榮榮先生於二零二零年
on 28 February 2020. 二月二十八日辭任本公司
非執行董事。
Note 3: Ms. Wu Qing was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company 附註3： 吳清女士於二零二零年三
on 31 March 2020 and resigned as a non-executive director of the 月三十一日獲委任為本公
Company on 16 July 2020. 司非執行董事，並於二零
二零年七月十六日辭任本
公司非執行董事。
The executive directors’ emoluments shown above were for their services 上文所示執行董事的酬金主要就
in connection with the management of the affairs of the Company and the 彼等有關管理本公司及本集團事
Group. 務的服務而言。
The emoluments of the non-executive directors and independent non- 非執行董事及獨立非執行董事之
executive directors shown above were for their services as directors of the 酬金主要就彼等作為本公司董事
Company. 提供的服務而言。
(b) Loans, quasi-loans and other dealings in favour of directors (b) 以董事為受益人之貸款、類似貸
款及其他交易
There are no loans, quasi-loans or other dealings in favour of the directors of 截至二零二一年及二零二零年
the Company that were entered into or subsisted during the years ended 31 十二月三十一日止年度概無訂立
December 2021 and 2020. 或存續任何以本公司董事為受益
人之貸款、類似貸款及其他交易。
Annual Report 2021 年報 157IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS (continued) 10. 董事及主要行政人員酬金（續）
(c) Directors’ material interests in transactions, arrangements or contracts (c) 董事於交易、安排或合約之重大
利益
After consideration, the directors of the Company are of the opinion that 經考慮後，本公司董事認為，截
no transactions, arrangements and contracts of significance in relation to 至二零二一年及二零二零年十二
the Company’s business to which the Company was a party and in which 月三十一日止年度年末或於截至
a director of the Company, or connected entity of the directors of the 二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
Company, had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted 三十一日止年度任何時間，概無
at the end of the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 or at any time 存續任何有關本公司業務之交
during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 易、安排或重大合約，乃涉及本
公司且本公司董事（或本公司董事
之關連實體）直接或間接擁有重大
利益。
11. FIVE HIGHEST PAID INDIVIDUALS 11. 五名最高薪酬人士
No director is included in the aggregate emoluments of the five highest paid 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
individuals during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 三十一日止年度，概無董事計入五名最
高薪酬人士酬金總額。
The emoluments of the five (2020: five) highest paid non-director individuals are as 五名（二零二零年：五名）非董事最高薪
follows: 酬人士之酬金如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Salaries and allowances 薪金及津貼 2.7 3.3
R etirement benefits schemes contributions 退 休福利計劃供款 0.3 0.1
3.0 3.4
158 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
11. FIVE HIGHEST PAID INDIVIDUALS (continued) 11. 五名最高薪酬人士（續）
The emoluments of the five (2020: five) highest paid non-director individuals are 五名（二零二零年：五名）非董事最高薪
within the following bands: 酬人士之酬金介乎以下幅度：
Number of individuals
僱員數目
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
N il to HK$1,000,000 零 至港幣1,000,000元 5 5
No emoluments were paid or payable by the Group to the directors of the 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
Company or the five highest paid individuals as an inducement to join or upon 三十一日止年度，本集團概無支付或應
joining the Group, or as compensation for loss of office during the years ended 31 付酬金予本公司董事或五名最高薪酬人
December 2021 and 2020. There was no arrangement under which a director or 士作為彼等加入本集團或加入後之酬金
the five highest paid individuals waived or agreed to waive any remuneration for the 或離職補償金。概無董事或五名最高
years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 薪酬人士截至二零二一年及二零二零年
十二月三十一日止年度放棄或同意放棄
任何酬金之安排。
Annual Report 2021 年報 159IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
12. TAXATION 12. 稅項
No provision for income tax has been made as the Group entitles either had no 由於本集團於截至二零二一年及二零二
estimated assessable profits or incurred tax losses for the years ended 31 December 零年十二月三十一日止年度並無估計應
2021 and 2020. 課稅溢利或產生稅項虧損，故並無作出
所得稅撥備。
The tax charge for the year is reconciled to the loss before taxation as follows: 本年度稅項支出與除稅前之虧損對賬如
下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
L oss before taxation 除 稅前虧損 (84.2) (95.8)
Tax credit at the domestic income tax rate of 16.5% 按本地所得稅率16.5%計算的稅項抵免 (13.9) (15.8)
Tax effect of expenses not deductible for 不可扣稅開支之稅項影響
tax purpose 1.9 0.8
Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purpose 毋須課稅收入之稅項影響 (0.4) (0.3)
Tax effect of tax losses not recognised 未獲確認稅項虧損之稅項影響 13.1 16.8
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating 於其他司法權區經營附屬公司
in other jurisdictions 所採用稅率不同之影響 (3.0) (4.3)
Tax effect of deductible temporary difference 未獲確認可扣稅暫時差額之稅項影響
not recognised 2.3 2.8
T ax charge for the year 本 年度稅項支出 – –
Entities incorporated in Hong Kong are subject to Hong Kong Profits tax. On 於香港註冊成立之實體須繳納香港利得
21 March 2018, the Hong Kong Legislative Council passed The Inland Revenue 稅。於二零一八年三月二十一日，香港
(Amendment) (No. 7) Bill 2017 (the “Bill”) which introduces the two-tiered profits 立法會通過《2017年稅務（修訂）（第7號）
tax rates regime. The Bill was signed into law on 28 March 2018 and was gazetted 條例草案》（「條例草案」），引入利得稅
on the following day. Under the two-tiered profits tax rates regime, the first HK$2 兩級制。該條例草案於二零一八年三月
million of profits of the qualifying group entity will be taxed at 8.25%, and profits 二十八日經簽署生效，並於翌日刊憲。
above HK$2 million will be taxed at 16.5%. The profits of group entities not 根據利得稅兩級制，合資格法團首港幣
qualifying for the two-tiered profits tax rates regime will continue to be taxed at a 2百萬元溢利的利得稅率將為8.25%，其
flat rate of 16.5%. 後港幣2百萬元以上的溢利則按16.5%徵
稅。不符合利得稅兩級制資格的法團的
溢利將持續劃一按16.5%稅率計算。
160 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
12. TAXATION (continued) 12. 稅項（續）
Under the Law of the PRC on Enterprise Income Tax (“EIT Law”) and 按照《中華人民共和國企業所得稅法》
Implementation Regulation of the EIT Law, the tax rate for the PRC subsidiaries is （「企業所得稅法」）及實施條例，中國附
25% for both years. 屬公司之企業所得稅稅率於兩個年度均
為25%。
Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the 其他司法權區之稅項乃按照有關司法權
relevant jurisdictions. 區現行之稅率計算。
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unutilised tax losses of 於報告期末，本集團有尚未動用稅項虧
approximately HK$556.0 million (2020: approximately HK$550.5 million) available 損約港幣556.0百萬元（二零二零年：約
for offset against future profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect 港幣550.5百萬元）可供抵銷日後溢利。
of such losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams in the years ended 由於截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二
31 December 2021 and 2020. Included in the unrecognised tax losses were losses 月三十一日止年度難以預測未來溢利
of approximately HK$170.1 million (2020: approximately HK$157.7 million that 流，故並無就該等虧損確認遞延稅項資
would expire in the years of 2021 to 2025) that will expire in the years of 2022 to 產。未確認稅項虧損包括將於二零二二
2026. Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 年至二零二六年期間到期之虧損約港
幣170.1百萬元（二零二零年：將於二零
二一年至二零二五年期間到期之虧損約
港幣157.7百萬元）。其他虧損可無限期
結轉。
The Group also has certain deductible temporary differences mainly related to loss 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團
from impairment of advances to suppliers, loss allowance on trade receivables and 亦擁有若干可扣減暫時差額約港幣92.0
finance lease receivables and write-down of inventories amounted to approximately 百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣83.3百萬
HK$92.0 million and available for offset against future profits at 31 December 2021 元），主要與預付供應商款項之減值虧
(2020: approximately HK$83.3 million). No deferred tax asset has been recognised 損、應收賬款及融資租賃應收款項虧損
in relation to such deductible temporary differences as it is not probable that taxable 撥備及存貨撇減有關，並可用於抵銷日
profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be 後溢利。由於不大可能有應課稅溢利可
utilised. 用以抵銷可扣減暫時差額，故概無就有
關可扣減暫時差額確認遞延稅項資產。
Annual Report 2021 年報 161IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
12. TAXATION (continued) 12. 稅項（續）
Exposures arising from income tax liabilities 所得稅負債產生的風險
Oregon Scientific Italy Limited (“OS Italy”) Oregon Scientific Italy Limited（ 「OS Italy」）
An indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, OS Italy, was involved in 本公司之間接全資附屬公司OS Italy牽涉
a tax dispute with the Italian Tax Authorities. As disclosed in the announcement 一項與意大利稅務局之稅務糾紛。如本
of the Company dated 6 November 2018, there was a tax dispute between OS 公司日期為二零一八年十一月六日之公
Italy and the Italian Tax Authorities (“Tax Dispute”), and the tax charge judgement 佈所披露，OS Italy與意大利稅務局之
in relation to the Tax Dispute from the Supreme Court of Cassation of Italy was 間存在稅務糾紛（「稅務糾紛」），並接獲
received. After seeking the independent legal advice, the directors of the Company 意大利最高上訴法院就稅務糾紛作出的
considered no further legal actions are possible for OS Italy in relation to the Tax 稅收判決。經尋求獨立法律意見後，本
Dispute. Based on tax notice received from the Italian Tax Authorities in January 公司董事認為，OS Italy無任何其他途徑
2019, the Group provided a tax provision of approximately Euro (“EUR”) 1.4 million 可以就稅務糾紛進一步申訴。根據於二
(equivalent to approximately HK$12.3 million) in profit or loss for the year ended 零一九年一月接獲的意大利稅務局發出
31 December 2018. OS Italy was declared bankrupt by the Court in July 2019 and a 的稅收通知，本集團於截至二零一八年
bankruptcy trustee was appointed to in charge of OS Italy’s bankruptcy procedure. 十二月三十一日止年度之損益內計提稅
After seeking the independent legal advice, the directors of the Company considered 項撥備約1.4百萬歐元（「歐元」）（相當於
that OS Italy was still at the earlier stage of bankruptcy procedures and the related 約港幣12.3百萬元）。OS Italy由法院於二
tax liabilities had not yet been fully discharged. Accordingly, the Group continued to 零一九年七月宣告破產，並委任破產信
recognise the aforesaid tax provision of approximately EUR1.4 million (equivalent 託人負責OS Italy的破產程序。在徵詢獨
to approximately HK$12.0 million) as tax payable at 31 December 2021 (2020: 立法律意見後，本公司董事認為OS Italy
approximately EUR1.4 million (equivalent to approximately HK$12.9 million)). 仍處於破產程序較早階段，且相關稅
項負債仍未獲全面解除。因此，於二零
二一年十二月三十一日，本集團繼續確
認上述稅項撥備約1.4百萬歐元（相當於
約港幣12.0百萬元）（二零二零年：約1.4
百萬歐元（相當於約港幣12.9百萬元））為
應付稅項。
162 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
12. TAXATION (continued) 12. 稅項（續）
Exposures arising from income tax liabilities (continued) 所得稅負債產生的風險（續）
Oregon Scientific Brasil Ltda (“OS Brazil”) Oregon Scientific Brasil Ltda（ 「OS Brazil」）
An indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, OS Brazil, was involved in 本公司的間接全資附屬公司OS Brazil與
a tax dispute with the State of Sao Paulo, the Federative Republic of Brazil, which 巴西聯邦共和國聖保羅州發生稅務糾
may cause a maximum tax payment including penalty and interest of approximately 紛，可能導致繳納最高稅款（包括罰金
Brazilian Real 3.8 million (equivalent to approximately HK$5.3 million) (2020: 及利息）約為3.8百萬巴西雷亞爾（相當於
approximately Brazilian Real 3.7 million (equivalent to approximately HK$5.6 約港幣5.3百萬元）（二零二零年：約為
million)). After seeking the independent legal advice, the directors of the Company 3.7百萬巴西雷亞爾（相當於約港幣5.6百
considered that the outcome and the amount of final payment, if any, are uncertain 萬元））。在徵詢獨立法律意見後，本公
but the expected value of liability is insignificant to the Group. Therefore, no 司董事認為結果及最終付款金額（如有）
provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements. 並不確定，惟預期負債值對本集團而言
並不重大。因此並無於綜合財務報表計
提撥備。
13. LOSS PER SHARE 13. 每股虧損
The calculation of the basic loss per share attributable to the owners of the 於兩個年度本公司擁有人應佔每股基本
Company for both years is based on the following data: 虧損乃按下列數據計算：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Loss for the year attributable to owners 用以計算每股基本虧損之
of the Company for the purpose of 本公司擁有人應佔之
basic loss per share 本年度虧損 (84.2) (95.8)
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
Number of ordinary shares: 普通股份數目：
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 用以計算每股基本虧損之
for the purposes of basic loss per share 普通股加權平均數 2,599,993,088 2,599,993,088
Diluted loss per share is the same as basic loss per share as there was no potential 每股攤薄虧損與每股基本虧損相同，因
ordinary share in issue for both years. 為兩個年度均無已發行潛在普通股。
Annual Report 2021 年報 163IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 14. 物業、機器及設備
Furniture,
fixture and Motor Plant and
equipment vehicles machinery Total
傢俬、裝置
及設備 汽車 機器及器械 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
COST 成本
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 256.3 2.1 258.7 517.1
Additions 添置 – – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2020 and 2021 於二零二零年及二零二一年
十二月三十一日 256.3 2.1 259.0 517.4
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 累計折舊
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 252.0 2.1 251.2 505.3
Charged for the year 本年度計提 2.2 – 5.9 8.1
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月三十一日 254.2 2.1 257.1 513.4
Charged for the year 本年度計提 0.8 – 1.7 2.5
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日 255.0 2.1 258.8 515.9
NET CARRYING AMOUNT 賬面淨值
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日 1.3 – 0.2 1.5
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月三十一日 2.1 – 1.9 4.0
164 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) 14. 物業、機器及設備（續）
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less 物業、機器及設備均以直線法，按估計
their residual values over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, 可用年期減其剩餘價值計提折舊，以撇
at the following rates per annum: 銷成本，每年之折舊率如下：
Furniture, fixture and equipment 10%–25% 傢俬、裝置及設備 10%–25%
Motor vehicles 10%–20% 汽車 10%–20%
Plant and machinery 10%–33% 機器及器械 10%–33%
During the year ended 31 December 2021, as a result of the unsatisfactory 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年
performance of the Group due to the unprecedent impact of the COVID-19 度，由於COVID-19疫情空前影響導致
pandemic, the management of the Group carried out a review of the recoverable 本集團財務表現欠佳，本集團管理層對
amounts of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and right-of-use 物業、機器及設備、投資物業及使用權
assets. The management of the Group performed an impairment assessment by using 資產之可收回金額進行檢討。本集團管
the fair value less cost of disposal model and compared the carrying amount of the 理層採用公平值減出售成本模型進行減
assets to determine the amount of impairment which should be recognised for the 值評估，並將資產賬面值進行比較，以
year. 釐定應於本年度確認的減值金額。
For property, plant and equipment, the fair value less costs of disposal was 就物業、機器及設備而言，公平值減出
determined by the management of the Group using the depreciated replacement 售成本由本集團管理層採用折舊重置成
cost approach and/or market comparable approach, as appropriate. The 本法及╱或市場可比較法（視乎適用）釐
determination of the fair value less costs of disposal is based on available data 定。釐定公平值減出售成本乃根據來自
from binding sales transactions in an arm’s length transaction of similar assets or 對類似資產進行公平且具約束力銷售交
observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. If no 易之可查閱數據或可觀察市價，減除出
second hand prices are available, the fair value less costs to disposal is determined 售有關資產之遞增成本。倘並無轉售價
using depreciated replacement cost approach that requires an estimation of new 格可供查閱，則公平值減出售成本乃採
replacement cost of the assets from which deductions are then made to allow for 用折舊重置成本法而釐定，該方法需估
physical deterioration and all forms of obsolescence and optimisation. Based on the 計有關資產之重置成本，再從中作出扣
results of the impairment assessment, the management of the Group concluded that 減，以計及老化及所有形式的陳舊及優
the recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment were higher than 化。根據減值評估結果，本集團管理層
their carrying amounts and therefore no impairment was required. 得出結論認為，物業、機器及設備之可
收回金額較其賬面值高，因此毋須計提
減值。
For investment properties and right-of-use assets, the determination of the fair 就投資物業及使用權資產而言，於以合
value less costs of disposal was based on income capitalisation approach which 適的資本化比率釐定市場參與者產生的
involves estimations and assumptions in determining rental income derived from 租金收入時，公平值減出售成本乃根據
market participant’s perspective with appropriate capitalisation rate. Based on the 收入資本化法釐定，其涉及估計及假
results of the impairment assessment, the management of the Group concluded 設。基於減值評估之結果，本集團管理
that the recoverable amounts of the investment properties and right-of-use assets 層認為，投資物業及使用權資產之可收
were lower than their carrying amounts and it led to the recognition of impairment 回金額低於其賬面值，其導致投資物業
losses of approximately HK$1.0 million on investment properties (note 15) and （附註15）及使用權資產（附註16）確認減
approximately HK$8.9 million on right-of-use assets (note 16) respectively. 值虧損分別約港幣1.0百萬元及港幣8.9
百萬元。
Annual Report 2021 年報 165IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
15. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 15. 投資物業
Leased
properties
租賃物業
HK$ million
港幣百萬元
COST 成本
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 –
Additions 添置 3.2
At 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2021 於二零二零年十二月三十一日及
二零二一年十二月三十一日 3.2
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND 累計折舊及減值虧損
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 –
Charged for the year 本 年度計提 0.1
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月三十一日 0.1
Charged for the year 本年度計提 1.5
I mpairment loss (note 14) 減 值虧損（附註14） 1.0
A t 31 December 2021 於 二零二一年十二月三十一日 2.6
NET CARRYING AMOUNT 賬面淨值
A t 31 December 2021 於 二零二一年十二月三十一日 0.6
A t 31 December 2020 於 二零二零年十二月三十一日 3.1
FAIR VALUE 公平值
A t 31 December 2021 於 二零二一年十二月三十一日 0.7
A t 31 December 2020 於 二零二零年十二月三十一日 3.5
166 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
15. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (continued) 15. 投資物業（續）
Leasing arrangement – as lessee 租賃安排－作為承租人
The Group’s investment properties are leased properties in relation to operating 本集團的投資物業為經營租賃用於分租
lease used for sub-leasing purpose and the lease terms are two years. 用途的租賃物業，租期為兩年。
The management of the Group is of the view that the Group’s investment 本集團管理層認為，本集團的投資物業
properties, which are only included leased properties under operating lease 僅包括經營租賃項下作分租用途的租賃
with sub-leasing purpose. By using the cost model would provide more relevant 物業。透過使用成本模式，可就本集團
information about the Group’s financial position and performance. 的財務狀況及表現提供更多相關資料。
At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the management of the Group assessed the fair 於二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
value is under level 3 of the three-level fair value hierarchy as defined under HKFRS 三十一日，本集團管理層評估了公平
13 which is estimated using income capitalisation approach by capitalising the rental 值，乃按香港財務報告準則第13號所訂
income derived from the existing tenancies over the existing lease term at an 之公平值三層架構中分類為第三級，該
appropriate capitalisation rate. 公平值採用收入資本化法估計，將現有
租約於現有租期內產生的租金收入按適
當資本化率擴充資本。
Leasing arrangement – as lessor 租賃安排－作為出租人
The investment properties are leased to a number of tenants for terms ranging 投資物業已出租予若干租戶，租期介乎
from two months to two years, in which the lease term is cancellable (without 兩個月至兩年，租戶可於一至兩個月的
compensation) with notice periods of one to two months by the tenants with fixed 通知期內撤銷租約（無償），並收取固定
monthly rental charges and the tenants also bear the management fees. The details 月租，且租戶亦承擔管理費。來自經營
of the lease income from operating leases are set out in note 7 to the consolidated 租賃的租賃收入詳情載列於綜合財務報
financial statements. 表附註7。
Below is a maturity analysis of undiscounted lease payments to be received from the 下表為自投資物業租賃將收取之未貼現
leasing of investment properties. 租賃付款的到期分析：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Within 1 year 1年內 0.7 1.8
More than 1 year but within 2 years 超過1年但於2年內 – 1.8
M ore than 2 years but within 3 years 超 過2年但於3年內 – 0.2
U ndiscounted lease payments to be received 將 收取之未貼現租賃付款 0.7 3.8
Annual Report 2021 年報 167IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
16. LEASES 16. 租賃
The Group as lessee 本集團作為承租人
Right-of-use assets 使用權資產
Buildings
樓宇
HK$ million
港幣百萬元
Reconciliation of carrying amount – 賬面值對賬－截至二零二零年
year ended 31 December 2020 十二月三十一日止年度
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 4.8
Additions 添置 59.9
Derecognised at inception of finance lease arrangements 融資租賃安排成立時終止確認 (25.0)
Reclassified to investment properties 重新分類至投資物業 (3.2)
Depreciation 折舊 (7.3)
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月三十一日 29.2
Reconciliation of carrying amount – 賬面值對賬－截至二零二一年
year ended 31 December 2021 十二月三十一日止年度
At 1 January 2021 於二零二一年一月一日 29.2
Depreciation 折舊 (14.7)
I mpairment loss (note 14) 減 值虧損（附註14） (8.9)
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日 5.6
Buildings
樓宇
HK$ million
港幣百萬元
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月三十一日
Cost 成本 31.7
Accumulated depreciation 累計折舊 (2.5)
Net carrying amount 賬面淨值 29.2
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日
Cost 成本 31.7
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 累計折舊及減值虧損 (26.1)
Net carrying amount 賬面淨值 5.6
168 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
16. LEASES (continued) 16. 租賃（續）
The Group as lessee (continued) 本集團作為承租人（續）
Lease liabilities 租賃負債
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Lease liabilities 租賃負債
Current portion 即期部分 27.1 26.8
N on-current portion 非 即期部分 15.6 29.8
42.7 56.6
The Group leases various office and factory premises for its daily operations and the 本集團為其日常營運租用若干辦公室
initial lease terms are two years (2020: two years). The total cash outflow for leases 及工廠物業，首次租期為兩年（二零二
was approximately HK$17.7 million for the year ended 31 December 2021 (2020: 零年：二年）。截至二零二一年十二月
approximately HK$25.6 million). 三十一日止年度，租賃現金流出總額約
為港幣17.7百萬元（二零二零年：約為港
幣25.6百萬元）。
At 31 December 2021, the weighted average effective interest rate for the lease 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團
liabilities of the Group was 9.0% per annum (2020: 8.2% per annum). 之租賃負債之加權平均實際年利率為
9.0%（二零二零年：年利率為8.2%）。
Commitments under leases 租賃項下承擔
At 31 December 2021 and 2020 於二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
三十一日
The Group had no significant commitment for short-term leases. 本集團並無任何短期租賃之重大承擔。
Annual Report 2021 年報 169IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
17. FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES 17. 融資租賃應收款項
During the year ended 31 December 2020, the Group entered into finance lease 於截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年
arrangements as the lessor for certain of its right-of-use assets, which have a lease 度內，本集團作為出租人就其若干使用
term of two years. The leases do not include purchase, extension or termination 權資產訂立融資租賃安排，其租期為兩
options. 年。租賃不包括購買、延期或終止選擇
權。
The Group is not exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of the lease 由於所有租賃均以人民幣（「人民幣」，
arrangements, as all leases are denominated in Renminbi (“RMB”), the functional 涉及租賃安排之集團實體的功能貨幣）
currency of the group entities involved in the lease arrangements. 計值，故本集團並無因租賃安排而面臨
外幣風險。
Below is a maturity analysis of lease payments receivable and the reconciliation of 下表為應收租賃付款的到期分析及未貼
undiscounted lease payments to the present value of minimum lease payments. 現租賃付款與最低租賃付款現值之對
賬。
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Finance lease receivables comprises: 融資租賃應收款項包括：
Within 1 year 1年內 13.3 13.3
More than 1 year but within 2 years 超過1年但於2年內 1.2 13.3
M ore than 2 years but within 3 years 超 過2年但於3年內 – 1.2
Gross investment in the lease (note) 租賃之投資總額（附註） 14.5 27.8
L ess: Unearned finance income 減 ：未賺取融資收入 (0.7) (2.3)
Present value of minimum lease payments 最低租賃付款現值 13.8 25.5
L ess: Loss allowance (note 29) 減 ：虧損撥備（附註29） (8.6) –
5.2 25.5
Current portion 即期部分 5.2 11.7
N on-current portion 非 即期部分 – 13.8
5.2 25.5
The finance lease receivables at the end of the reporting period are not past due. 於報告期末，融資租賃應收款項並無逾
The weighted average effective interest rate contracted was 8.2% per annum. 期。訂約加權平均實際年利率為8.2%。
Details of impairment assessment of finance lease receivables for the year ended 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
31 December 2021 and 2020 are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial 三十一日止年度之融資租賃應收款項之
statements. 減值評估詳情載於綜合財務報表附註
29。
Note: The gross investment in the lease represents the total undiscounted lease payments 附註： 租賃之投資總額指本集團根據融資
to be received by the Group under the finance lease arrangements. There was no 租賃安排將收取的未貼現租賃付款總
unguaranteed residual accruing to the Group. 額。本集團並無應計未擔保餘值。
170 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
18. GOODWILL 18. 商譽
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
COST 成本
A t 1 January and 31 December 於 一月一日及十二月三十一日 33.8 33.8
ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 累計減值虧損
A t 1 January and 31 December 於 一月一日及十二月三十一日 33.8 33.8
NET CARRYING AMOUNT 賬面淨值
A t 31 December 於 十二月三十一日 – –
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of business in prior years were allocated to 過往年度收購業務所產生的商譽獲分配
two individual cash generating units (“CGUs”), comprising the health and wellness 至兩個創現單位（「創現單位」），包括健
segment and the connected home and communications segment. 康及保健分部和智能家居分部。
During the year ended 31 December 2018, having considered that some products 截至二零一八年十二月三十一日止年
had been loss-making and the relevant operations were either terminated during 度，經考慮若干產品已產生虧損及相關
the year or planned to be terminated in the foreseeable future, the directors of 業務會與年內終止或計劃於可見將來終
the Company had consequently performed an impairment review for these CGUs 止，本公司董事其後對該等創現單位進
and the recoverable amounts were determined from a value in use calculation. 行減值檢討，而可收回金額從計算使用
As a result of the impairment tests, the director of the Company concluded 價值的角度釐定。由於減值測試，本公
that the goodwill of health and wellness segment and the connected home and 司董事認為就健康及保健分部內及智能
communications segment had been fully impaired. 家居分部內商譽已全額減值。
Annual Report 2021 年報 171IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
19. INVENTORIES 19. 存貨
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Raw materials 原料 4.3 3.3
Work in progress 在製品 0.2 0.3
F inished goods 製 成品 0.7 3.5
5.2 7.1
During the year ended 31 December 2021, there was an increase in the net 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年
realisable value of certain raw materials and finished goods due to rise in market 度，由於市價上漲，若干原料及製成品
price (2020: decrease in net realisable value of certain raw materials and finished 之可變現淨值有所增加（二零二零年：
goods due to obsolescence and diminishing marketability as a result of changes 由於市況及技術變動導致存貨陳舊及可
in the market condition and technology). Therefore, a reversal of write-down 銷售程度逐步減少，若干原料及製成品
of approximately HK$1.9 million (2020: write-down of approximately HK$4.5 之可變現淨值有所減少）。因此，已於
million) has been recognised in profit or loss. At 31 December 2021, the carrying 損益確認撇減撥回約港幣1.9百萬元（二
amount net of allowance of inventories of approximately HK$49.0 million (2020: 零二零年：撇減約港幣4.5百萬元）。於
approximately HK$50.9 million) amounted to approximately HK$5.2 million (2020: 二零二一年十二月三十一日，賬面值
approximately HK$7.1 million). （扣除存貨撥備約港幣49.0百萬元（二零
二零年：約港幣50.9百萬元））約為港幣
5.2百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣7.1百萬
元）。
20. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 20. 應收賬款及其他應收款項
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Trade receivables 應收賬款 33.2 33.2
L ess: Loss allowance for ECL 減 ：預期信貸虧損撥備 (32.5) (32.4)
0.7 0.8
O ther receivables 其 他應收款項 6.2 5.5
T otal trade and other receivables 應 收賬款及其他應收款項總額 6.9 6.3
172 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
20. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 20. 應收賬款及其他應收款項（續）
The following is the ageing analysis of trade receivables (net of loss allowance 於報告日期，應收賬款扣除預期信貸虧
for ECL) presented based on the invoice date which approximate the respective 損撥備後，按發票日期（該日期與相關
revenue recognition date at the reporting date. 收益確認日期相若）呈列之賬齡分析如
下。
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
0 to 30 days 0至30日 0.3 –
31 to 90 days 31日至90日 – –
O ver 90 days 9 0日以上 0.4 0.8
T rade receivables 應 收賬款 0.7 0.8
The Group normally requests its customers to make advance payment, except 除信貸期通常達45日的若干客戶以外，
for certain customers for which the credit terms are generally up to 45 days. The 本集團通常要求其客戶提前付款。本集
Group seeks to maintain strict control over its outstanding receivables to minimise 團對其未償還應收款項進行嚴格控制，
credit risk. Before accepting any new customers, the management of the Group will 以盡量減小信貸風險。接納任何新客戶
base on the credit quality of the potential customers to define credit limits. Credit 之前，本集團管理層將根據潛在客戶的
limits to customers are reviewed annually. In determining the recoverability of the 信貸質素界定信貸限額。向客戶授出的
trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 信貸限額會每年進行檢討。於釐定應收
receivables from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. 賬款是否可予收回時，本集團會考慮自
信貸首次獲授當日起至報告日期止應收
賬款之信貸質素的任何變動。
At 31 December 2021, included in the Group’s trade receivable balances are 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團
debtors with aggregate carrying amount of approximately HK$0.4 million (2020: 之應收賬款結餘包括總賬面值約為港幣
approximately HK$0.8 million) which are past due over 90 days at the end of the 0.4百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣0.8百萬
reporting period. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. 元）且於報告期末已逾期90日以上之應
收賬款。本集團並無就該等結餘持有任
何抵押品。
Annual Report 2021 年報 173IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
20. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 20. 應收賬款及其他應收款項（續）
Other receivables 其他應收款項
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Advances to suppliers (note) 預付供應商款項（附註） 1.7 2.0
Other taxes recoverable 其他可收回稅款 3.4 2.3
O thers 其 他 1.1 1.2
6.2 5.5
Note: The Group had made advances to various suppliers for the procurement of raw 附註： 本集團已為採購原料向若干供應商作
materials. At 31 December 2021, the unutilised advances to suppliers amounted to 出預付款項。於二零二一年十二月
approximately HK$1.7 million (2020: approximately HK$2.0 million). The directors 三十一日，未動用預付供應商款項達
of the Company reassessed the recoverability of the unutilised advances based on 約港幣1.7百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣
all relevant information available to the Group. Due to the continuing downturn of 2.0百萬元）。本公司董事根據本集團所
the Group’s business operation and the status of negotiation with the suppliers, the 有可取閱之相關資料重新評估未動用
directors of the Company considered that there was significant uncertainty on the 預付款項之可收回程度。因本集團業
ability of the Group to recover certain part of the advances through either utilisation 務營運持續下行及本集團與供應商之
from future purchases or refunds. Accordingly, an impairment loss of approximately 磋商狀況，本公司董事認為通過未來
HK$1.9 million (2020: Nil) was recognised in profit or loss for year ended 31 採購動用或退款使本集團能收回若干
December 2021. 部分預付款項之能力存在重大不明朗
因素。因此，截至二零二一年十二月
三十一日止年度於損益確認減值虧損
約港幣1.9百萬元（二零二零年：零）。
Included in trade and other receivables are the following amounts denominated 應收賬款及其他應收款項包括下列以相
in currency other than the functional currency of the group entities to which they 關集團實體之功能貨幣以外之貨幣計值
relate. 之款項：
截至二零二一2年02及1二零二零年十20二20月二零二一年二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
R MB 人 民幣 5.1 2.2
Details of impairment assessment of trade and other receivables for the years ended 三十一日止年度之應收賬款及其他應收
31 December 2021 and 2020 are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial 款項減值評估詳情載於綜合財務報表附
statements. 註29。
174 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
21. RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES AND CASH AND CASH 21. 受限制銀行結餘及現金及等同現金
EQUIVALENTS 項目
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Bank balances and cash 銀行結餘及現金 52.9 13.1
L ess: Restricted bank balances 減 ：受限制銀行結餘 (3.4) (3.7)
C ash and cash equivalents 現 金及等同現金項目 49.5 9.4
Bank balances and cash comprised cash held by the Group and bank deposits which 銀行結餘及現金包括本集團持有之現金
carried interest at prevailing market rates. 及銀行存款，有關存款按通行市場利率
計息。
At 31 December 2021, restricted bank balances of approximately HK$3.4 million 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，受限制
(2020: approximately HK$3.7 million) were frozen by the order of the courts in 銀行結餘約為港幣3.4百萬元（二零二零
the PRC pursuant to the legal claims as set out in the note 32 to the consolidated 年：約港幣3.7百萬元）根據載列於綜合
financial statements. 財務報表附註32的法律訴訟之中國法院
法令凍結。
Included in bank balances and cash are the following amounts denominated in 銀行結餘及現金包括下列以相關集團實
currency other than the functional currency of the group entities to which they 體之功能貨幣以外之貨幣計值之款項：
relate:
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
EUR 歐元 0.3 0.4
RMB 人民幣 3.7 4.7
U nited States dollars (“US$”) 美 元（「美元」） 48.5 5.0
Annual Report 2021 年報 175IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 22. 應付賬款及其他應付款項
The following is the ageing analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice 於報告期末，應付賬款按發票日期呈列
date at the end of the reporting period: 之賬齡分析如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
0 to 30 days 0至30日 3.1 3.8
31 to 90 days 31日至90日 0.2 1.7
O ver 90 days 9 0日以上 23.7 29.1
Trade payables 應付賬款 27.0 34.6
O ther payables 其 他應付款項 34.8 23.9
T rade and other payables 應 付賬款及其他應付款項 61.8 58.5
The trade payables are interest-free with normal credit terms up to 90 days. 應付賬款為免息及一般信貸期長達90
日。
Other payables 其他應付款項
NOTES 2021 2020
附註 二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Payable for staff costs 應付員工成本 10.1 8.2
Payable for audit services 審計服務應付款項 1.9 2.1
Other tax payables 其他應付稅項 2.0 2.5
Provision for losses on litigations 訴訟虧損撥備 32 3.8 3.3
Refundable deposits from its customers 來自其客戶的可退還按金 23 10.1 –
O thers 其 他 6.9 7.8
T otal other payables 其 他應付款項總額 34.8 23.9
176 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued) 22. 應付賬款及其他應付款項（續）
Other payables (continued) 其他應付款項（續）
Included in trade and other payables are the following amounts denominated in 應付賬款及其他應付款項包括下列以相
currency other than the functional currency of the group entities to which they 關集團實體之功能貨幣以外之貨幣計值
relate: 之款項：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
R MB 人 民幣 28.0 26.0
23. CONTRACT LIABILITIES 23. 合約負債
The movements (excluding those arising from increases and decreases both 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
occurred within the same year) of contract liabilities from contracts with customers 三十一日止年度來自香港財務報告準則
within HKFRS 15 during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are as 第15號界定之客戶合約的合約負債變動
follows: （不包括均於同一年內發生的增加及減
少所產生變動）如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
At 1 January 於一月一日 18.7 23.3
Receipt of advances 收取預付款項 5.9 6.6
Recognised as revenue 確認為收益 (5.8) (11.2)
T ransfer to other payables 轉 撥至其他應付款項 (10.1) –
A t 31 December 於 十二月三十一日 8.7 18.7
At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the advances from customers are expected to be 於二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
recognised as revenue within 1 year. 三十一日，收取客戶的預付款項預期於
一年內確認為收益。
Annual Report 2021 年報 177IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
23. CONTRACT LIABILITIES (continued) 23. 合約負債（續）
Unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations 未完成或部分未完成的履約責任
All the performance obligations that were unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) at 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，所有未
31 December 2021 are part of contracts that have an original expected duration 完成（或部分未完成）的履約責任均為原
of one year or less. Given that the Group applies the practical expedient in 始預計持續一年或更短的部分合約。鑒
paragraph 121(a) of HKFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to these performance 於本集團應用香港財務報告準則第15號
obligations is not disclosed. 第121(a)段所載可行權宜之計，故並未
披露分配至該等履約責任的交易價格。
24. LOAN FROM A SHAREHOLDER 24. 股東貸款
The balance represents loan advanced from a shareholder, Huaneng, for working 結餘指自一名股東（華能）墊支的貸款，
capital purpose. The loan was unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. 用作營運資金。該貸款為無抵押、免息
及來索即付。
Huaneng has confirmed in writing that it will not demand the partial or full 華能已以書面確認，其將不會要求部分
repayment of the shareholder’s loan until such demand or withdrawal has no 或悉數償還股東貸款，直至有關要求或
significant adverse impact on the Group’s going concern and the sufficiency of 撤回不對本集團持續經營及備有充足營
working capital. 運資金有重大不利影響。
25. BORROWINGS 25. 借款
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Non-current (note i) 非即期（附註i）
Unsecured borrowing from a financial institution 來自一間金融機構的無擔保借款 36.5 35.7
I nterest payables 應 付利息 12.2 9.1
48.7 44.8
Current (note ii) 即期（附註ii）
Unsecured borrowings from other creditors 來自其他債務人的無擔保借款 9.3 –
I nterest payables 應 付利息 –* –
9.3 –
* Represents amounts less than HK$0.1 million. * 指金額少於港幣0.1百萬元。
178 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
25. BORROWINGS (continued) 25. 借款（續）
Notes: 附註：
(i) On 8 December 2017, a subsidiary of the Group, 萬威電子（深圳）有限公司, (i) 於二零一七年十二月八日，本集團
entered into a loan agreement with a financial institution to borrow approximately 的附屬公司萬威電子（深圳）有限公司
RMB30.0 million at a fixed interest rate of 8.0% per annum for one year. On 27 March 與一家金融機構訂立貸款協議，以按
2020, 萬威電子（深圳）有限公司 entered into a supplementary agreement with 固定年利率8.0%借款約人民幣30.0百
the financial institution to extend the repayment date of the borrowing including the 萬元一年。於二零二零年三月二十七
interest payables with maturity date on 31 March 2026 at a fixed interest of 8.0% per 日，萬威電子（深圳）有限公司與該金
annum. 融機構訂立補充協議延長有關借款
（包括應付利息）還款日期，到期日為
二零二六年三月三十一日，按固定年
利率8.0%計息。
(ii) The borrowings from other creditors were unsecured and guaranteed by the (ii) 來自其他債務人之借款為無抵押及由
controlling shareholder of the Company, bore interest at 10.0% per annum and 本公司控股股東擔保，按年息10.0%
repayable on demand. The borrowings were denominated in RMB. 計息及來索即付。借款均以人民幣計
值。
26. SHARE CAPITAL 26. 股本
Number of
shares Amount
股份數目 金額
HK$ million
港幣百萬元
Authorised: 法定：
Ordinary shares of HK$0.10 each 每股面值港幣0.10元的普通股份
At 1 January 2020 and 31 December 於二零二零年一月一日以及二零二零年
2020 and 2021 及二零二一年十二月三十一日 20,000,000,000 2,000.0
Ordinary shares of US$0.10 each 每股面值0.10美元的普通股份
At 1 January 2020 and 31 December 於二零二零年一月一日以及二零二零年
2020 and 2021 及二零二一年十二月三十一日 10,000 –
Issued and fully paid: 已發行及繳足：
Ordinary shares of HK$0.10 each 每股面值港幣0.10元的普通股份
At 1 January 2020 and 31 December 於二零二零年一月一日以及二零二零年
2020 and 2021 及二零二一年十二月三十一日 2,599,993,088 260.0
Annual Report 2021 年報 179IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
27. SHARE OPTION SCHEME 27. 購股權計劃
The Group share option scheme (the “Scheme”) was approved for adoption on 29 本集團之購股權計劃（「計劃」）於二零
August 2012 to attract, motivate and retain key employees who contribute to the 一二年八月二十九日獲批准採納，以吸
growth of the Group. The Scheme has a maximum of ten years in operation from 引、激勵及挽留對本集團增長作出貢獻
the date of adoption. 之主要僱員。計劃由採納日期起維持生
效至長達十年。
Pursuant to the Scheme, the board of directors of the Company offered to grant 根據計劃，本公司董事會可向選定之合
options to selected eligible participants, including full-time employees and full-time 資格參與者提呈授予購股權。此等合資
executive directors of the Company or employees or any of its subsidiaries. 格參與者包括本公司之全職僱員和全職
執行董事，或其任何附屬公司之僱員。
The limit on the total number of shares which may be issued upon exercise of all 授出但尚未行使之所有購股權，加上根
outstanding options granted and yet to be exercised, together with all outstanding 據本公司任何其他購股權計劃授出但尚
options granted and yet to be exercised under any other share option scheme(s) 未行使之所有購股權而可能發行之股份
of the Company, must not exceed 30% of the number of the Company’s issued 總數，最多不得超過本公司其時之已發
shares from time to time. Subject always to the aforesaid overall 30% limit, the total 行股份數目之30%。在時刻受上文所述
number of shares which may be issued upon exercise of all options to be granted, 整體30%限額限制下，因行使所有將授
together with all options to be granted under other share option scheme(s) of the 出之購股權，以及根據本公司其他購股
Company, must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 權計劃將授出之所有購股權而可能發行
the adoption date. Such 10% limit may be refreshed or exceeded if approved by 之股份總數，不得超過購股權計劃之採
shareholders in general meeting subject always to the aforesaid overall 30% limit. 納日期之已發行股本約10%。倘獲股東於股東大會批准，該10%限額可予更新或可授出超過該限額的購股權，惟時刻
受上文所述整體30%限額限制。
180 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
27. SHARE OPTION SCHEME (continued) 27. 購股權計劃（續）
The total number of the Company’s shares issued and which may be issued upon 於緊接授出日期前任何十二個月期間，
exercise of all options granted to a participant in any 12-month period immediately 因行使授予任何一名參與者之所有購股
preceding the date of grant shall not exceed 1% of the number of shares in issue as 權所發行及可能發行之本公司股份總
at date of such grant. If the grant of options is offered to a substantial shareholder or 數，不得超過授出購股權當日之已發行
an independent non-executive director of the Company or any of their respective 股份數目之1%。倘若向本公司之主要
associates, the total number of the Company’s shares issued and which may be issued 股東或獨立非執行董事或彼等各自之任
to such participant upon exercise of all options granted in any 12-month period up 何聯繫人士提呈授予購股權，則於截至
to and including the date of grant shall not exceed 0.1% of the number of shares 授出日期止任何十二個月期間（包括該
then in issue and having an aggregate value in excess of HK$5,000,000. 日），因行使已授予之所有購股權所發
行及可能發行予該名參與者之本公司股
份總數，不得超過當時已發行股份數目
0.1%，且總值不得超過港幣5,000,000元。
The subscription price for an option granted shall be the highest of (i) the closing 授出之購股權之認購價相當於下列最
price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant; (ii) the average closing price of 高者：(i)本公司股份於授出日期之收市
the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of grant; and (iii) 價；(ii)股份於緊接授出日期前五個營業
the nominal value of a share. 日之平均收市價；及(iii)股份之面值。
The vesting period of the share option is from the date of grant until the 購股權之歸屬期由授出日期開始，直至
commencement of the exercisable period. 行使期間開始為止。
An option may be exercised during a period to be determined by the Company’s 購股權可於本公司董事會全權酌情釐定
board of directors in their absolute discretion and in any event such period shall not 之期間內予以行使，惟無論如何該期間
exceed 10 years after the date of grant of the option. 不得超過授出購股權當日後十年。
No share option has been granted under the Scheme during the year ended 31 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年
December 2021 (2020: Nil). No share option was outstanding at 31 December 度概無根據計劃授出購股權（二零二零
2021 (2020: Nil). 年：無）。於二零二一年十二月三十一
日，概無購股權未獲行使（二零二零
年：無）。
Annual Report 2021 年報 181IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
28. CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT 28. 資本風險管理
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to 本集團之資本管理旨在確保本集團內之
continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through 所有實體均可持續經營，同時透過優化
the optimisation of debts and equity balance. In order to maintain or adjust the 債務及股本結構為股東謀求最大回報。
capital structure, the Group may raise loan from shareholders and issue new shares 為維持或調整資本結構，本集團可能向
to reduce debts. 股東籌集貸款及發行新股以減少債務。
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to owners of the 本集團之資本架構包括本公司擁有人應
Company, comprising issued share capital, reserves and loan from a shareholder. 佔權益（包含已發行股本、儲備及股東
貸款）。
The management of the Group reviews the capital structure on a regular basis. As 本集團管理層定期審核資本結構。作為
part of this review, the management of the Group considers the cost of capital and 該審核之一部分，本集團管理層考慮資
the risks associates with the capital, and takes appropriate actions through raising 本之成本及資本之風險，並會通過獲得
debts to adjust the Group’s capital structure. 債務採取適當措施調整本集團之資本架
構。
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 29. 金融工具
Categories of financial instruments 金融工具類別
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
F inancial assets at amortised cost 按 攤銷成本列賬之金融資產 63.3 44.0
F inancial liabilities at amortised cost 按 攤銷成本列賬之金融負債 360.4 275.6
Financial risk management objectives and policies 財務風險管理目標及政策
The Group’s major financial instruments include rental deposits, trade and other 本集團之主要金融工具包括租金按金、
receivables, finance lease receivables, bank balances and cash, trade and other 應收賬款及其他應收款項、融資租賃應
payables, lease liabilities, borrowings and loan from a shareholder. Details of the 收款項、銀行結餘及現金、應付賬款及
financial instruments are disclosed in respective notes. The risks associated with 其他應付款項、租賃負債、借款及股東
these financial instruments include market risk (currency risk and interest rate risk), 貸款。該等金融工具詳情於各有關附註
credit risk and liquidity risk. The policies on how to mitigate these risks are set out 披露。與該等金融工具有關之風險包括
below. The management of the Group manages and monitors these exposures to 市場風險（貨幣風險和利率風險）、信貸
ensure appropriate measures are implemented on a timely and effective manner. 風險及流動資金風險。有關本集團如何
降低該等風險的政策載列如下。本集團
管理層管理及監察該等風險，以確保及
時和有效地採取適當的措施。
182 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Currency risk 貨幣風險
Certain of the Group’s rental deposits, bank balances and cash, trade and other 本集團若干租金按金、銀行結餘及現
receivables, finance lease receivables, trade and other payables, borrowings and loan 金、應收賬款及其他應收款項、融資租
from a shareholder are denominated in RMB and US$ which are exposed to foreign 賃應收款項、應付賬款及其他應付款
currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to HK$. 項、借款及股東貸款以人民幣及美元計
值，以致本集團面臨各種貨幣風險（主
要是港幣）引起的外幣風險。
The Group currently has not entered into any contracts to hedge its foreign 本集團目前並無訂立任何合約以對沖外
currency risk exposure. The management of the Group monitors foreign exchange 幣風險。本集團管理層會監察外幣風險
risk exposure and will consider hedging significant foreign currency exposure should 及在需要時考慮對沖重大外幣風險。
the need arise.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currencies denominated monetary 本集團以外幣定值之貨幣資產及負債於
assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: 報告日期之賬面值如下：
Assets Liabilities
資產 負債
2021 2020 2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
US$ 美元 48.5 5.0 203.7 121.5
RMB 人民幣 12.2 10.3 86.0 70.8
E UR 歐 元 0.3 0.4 – –
Annual Report 2021 年報 183IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Currency risk (continued) 貨幣風險（續）
Sensitivity analysis 敏感度分析
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% (2020: 5%) increase and 下表詳列因應本集團對各有關集團實體
decrease in the functional currency of the respective group entities against the 之功能貨幣兌有關外幣升值及減值5%
relevant foreign currencies. 5% (2020: 5%) sensitivity rate represents management’s （二零二零年：5%）之敏感度。5%（二零
assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The 二零年：5%）的敏感度代表管理層對外
sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currencies denominated monetary 幣匯率合理可能變動之評估。敏感度
items and adjusts their translation at the period-end for a 5% (2020: 5%) change in 分析僅包括現有以外匯定值的貨幣性項
foreign currency rates. The analysis has excluded US$ denominated monetary items 目，並於期末按5%（二零二零年：5%）
as HK$, the functional currency of the group entities holding these monetary items, 的外匯變動調整彼等的換算率。該分析
is pegged to US$. The management of the Group considers that the currency risk 並不包括美元定值之貨幣項目，原因是
in this regard is minimal. A positive number below indicates an increase in post- 持有此等貨幣性項目之集團實體之功能
tax loss for the year where functional currency strengthens 5% against the relevant 貨幣港元乃與美元掛鈎。本集團管理層
foreign currencies. For a 5% weakening of functional currency of the respective 認為與此有關之貨幣風險屬微不足道。
group entities against the relevant foreign currencies, there would be an equal and 下列正數表示倘功能貨幣兌有關外幣升
opposite impact on the post-tax loss and the balances below would be negative. 值5%導致該年度出現除稅後虧損的增
加。倘各有關集團實體之功能貨幣兌有
關外幣貶值5%，將會對除稅後虧損造成
相等及相反之影響，而下列結餘將為負
數。
Effect on post-tax result
for the year
對年度除稅後業績之影響
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
R MB 人 民幣 3.7 3.0
In management’s opinion, the analysis is used for reference purpose and is 管理層認為此分析只用作參考用途，由
unrepresentative of the inherent currency risk as the period end exposure does not 於期末之風險並不反映截至二零二一年
reflect the exposure during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 及二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度之
風險，因此敏感度分析並不代表固有貨
幣風險。
184 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Interest rate risk 利率風險
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through the impact of rate 本集團因銀行結存利率變動之影響而承
changes on bank balances. The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk is mainly 擔現金流量利率風險。本集團的現金流
concentrated on the fluctuation of Benchmark Borrowing Rate of the People’s Bank 量利率風險主要集中在中國人民銀行的
of China. 基準利率。
The Group will continue to monitor the exposure on cash flow interest rate risk and 本集團將繼續監督現金流量利率風險的
will consider hedging the interest rate should the need arise. In the management’s 風險承擔並將考慮於有必要時進行利率
opinion, the Group does not have material interest rate risk exposure and hence no 對沖。管理層認為，本集團並無重大利
sensitivity analysis is presented. 率風險承擔，故並無呈列敏感度分析。
Credit risk 信貸風險
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a financial loss to 本集團將導致其產生財務虧損之最大信
the Group is arising from the amount of each class of financial assets as disclosed 貸風險承擔乃來自各類金融資產（如綜
in the consolidated statement of financial position. The Group does not hold any 合財務狀況報表所披露）。本集團並無
collateral or other credit enhancements to cover its credit risks associated with its 持有任何抵押品或其他信貸提升措施，
financial assets. 以應對其於金融資產相關之信貸風險。
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款
In order to minimise the credit risk, the management of the Group has delegated 為減低信貸風險，本集團管理層已指定
a team responsible for determination of credit limits and credit approvals. Before 團隊負責釐定信貸限額及信貸審批。於
accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to 接納任何新客戶前，本集團使用內部信
assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. 貸評分制度評估潛在客戶的信貸質素，
Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed at least twice a year. Other 並界定客戶的信貸限額。對客戶的限額
monitoring procedures are in place to ensure that follow-up action is taken to 及評分每年至少檢討兩次。本集團制訂
recover overdue debts. In addition, the Group performs impairment assessment 其他監督程序，以確保採取跟進措施收
under ECL model upon application of HKFRS 9 on trade balances based on 回逾期債務。此外，於應用香港財務報
provision matrix. In this regard, the management of the Group considers that the 告準則第9號後，本集團基於撥備矩陣
Group’s credit risk is significantly reduced. 根據預期信貸虧損模式對賬款結餘進行
減值評估。就此而言，本集團管理層認
為，本集團之信貸風險已大幅減低。
Annual Report 2021 年報 185IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
The Group’s internal credit risk grading assessment comprises the following 本集團之內部信貸風險等級評估包括以
categories: 下類別：
Internal
credit rating Description Trade receivables Other financial assets
內部信貸評級 說明 應收賬款 其他金融資產
Low risk The counterparty has a low risk of default and Lifetime ECL – 12m ECL
does not have any past-due amount not credit-impaired
低風險 對手方有低違約風險且並無任何逾期款項 全期預期信貸虧損－ 十二個月預期信貸虧損
並無產生信貸減值
Watch list Debtor frequently repays after due dates but Lifetime ECL – 12m ECL
usually settle after due date not credit-impaired
觀察清單 債務人經常於逾期日後還款， 全期預期信貸虧損－ 十二個月預期信貸虧損
但通常於到期日後清償 並無產生信貸減值
Doubtful There have been significant increases in credit Lifetime ECL – Lifetime ECL – not credit-impaired
risk since initial recognition through information not credit-impaired
developed internally or external resources
可疑 透過內部開發之數據或外部資源得知，信貸 全期預期信貸虧損－ 全期預期信貸虧損－並無產生信貸減
風險自初步確認以來大幅增加 並無產生信貸減值 值
Loss There is evidence indicating the asset is credit- Lifetime ECL – Lifetime ECL – credit-impaired
impaired credit-impaired
虧損 有證據表明資產產生信貸減值 全期預期信貸虧損－ 全期預期信貸虧損－產生信貸減值
產生信貸減值
Write-off There is evidence indicating that the debtor is in Amount is written off Amount is written off
severe financial difficulty and the Group has no
realistic prospect of recovery
撇銷 有證據表明債務人陷入嚴重財務困難，且本 金額撇銷 金額撇銷
集團並無收回的確實可能
186 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
The tables below details the credit risk exposures of the Group’s financial assets, 下表詳述本集團金融資產（須進行預期
which are subject to ECL assessment: 信貸虧損評估）之信貸風險承擔：
Gross Total gross
External Internal 12m or carrying carrying
2021 NOTES credit rating credit rating Lifetime ECL amount amount
十二個月或 總賬面值
二零二一年 附註 外部信貸評級 內部信貸評級 全期預期信貸虧損 總賬面值 總計
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Financial assets at
amortised cost
按攤銷成本列賬之金融資產
Rental deposits N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL
租 金按金 不適用 （附註2） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 3.4 3.4
Finance lease receivables 17 N/A (Note 2) Lifetime ECL –
credit-impaired
融資租賃應收款項 不適用 （附註2） 全期預期信貸虧損－
產生信貸減值 13.8 13.8
Bank balances and cash 21 N/A (Note 1) 12m ECL
銀 行結餘及現金 不適用 （附註1） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 52.9 52.9
Other receivables 20 N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL
其 他應收款項 不適用 （附註2） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 1.1 1.1
Trade receivables 20 N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL –
應收賬款 not credit-impaired
(provision matrix)
不適用 （附註3） 全期預期信貸虧損－
並無產生信貸減值
（撥備矩陣） 11.9
N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL –
credit-impaired
不適用 （附註3）） 全期預期信貸虧損－
產生信貸減值 21.3 33.2
Annual Report 2021 年報 187IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
The tables below detail the credit risk exposures of the Group’s financial assets, 下表詳述本集團金融資產（須進行預期
which are subject to ECL assessment: 信貸虧損評估）之信貸風險承擔：
Gross Total gross
External Internal 12m or carrying carrying
2020 NOTES credit rating credit rating Lifetime ECL amount amount
十二個月或 總賬面值
二零二零年 附註 外部信貸評級 內部信貸評級 全期預期信貸虧損 總賬面值 總計
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Financial assets at
amortised cost
按攤銷成本列賬之金融資產
Rental deposits N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL
租金按金 不適用 （附註2） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 3.4 3.4
Finance lease receivables 17 N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL
融資租賃應收款項 不適用 （附註2） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 25.5 25.5
Bank balances and cash 21 N/A (Note 1) 12m ECL
銀行結餘及現金 不適用 （附註1） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 13.1 13.1
Other receivables 20 N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL
其他應收款項 不適用 （附註2） 十二個月預期信貸虧損 1.2 1.2
Trade receivables 20 N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL – not
credit-impaired
(provision matrix)
應收賬款 不適用 （附註3） 全期預期信貸虧損－
並無產生信貸減值
（撥備矩陣） 11.9
N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL –
credit-impaired
不適用 （附註3） 全期預期信貸虧損－
產生信貸減值 21. 3 33. 2
188 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
Notes: 附註：
1. For bank balances and cash, the management of the Group considered the credit risk 1. 就銀行結餘及現金而言，管理層認為
has not increased significantly since the initial recognition. According to the historical 信貸風險自初步確認以來並無大幅增
observed default rates of bank balances and cash, the average loss rate is immaterial. 加。根據銀行結餘及現金之過往已觀
察違約率，平均虧損率並不重大。
2. For finance lease receivables, other receivables and rental deposits, the management of 2. 就融資租賃應收款項、其他應收款項
the Group individually assessed whether the credit risk increased significantly since the 及租金按金而言，本集團管理層單獨
initial recognition. Except for credit-impaired debtors, the management of the Group 評估信貸風險自初步確認以來是否大
considered the credit risk has not increased significantly since the initial recognition. 幅增加。除產生信貸減值之應收賬款
外，本集團管理層認為信貸風險自初
步確認以來並無大幅增加。
3. For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in HKFRS 9 to 3. 就應收賬款而言，本集團已應用香港
measure the loss allowance at lifetime ECL. Except for credit-impaired debtors, the 財務報告準則第9號內的簡化法計量
Group determines the ECL on these items by using a provision matrix, grouped by 全期預期信貸虧損的虧損撥備。除產
internal credit rating. 生信貸減值之應收賬款外，本集團使
用撥備矩陣釐定該等項目之預期信貸
虧損，並按內部信貸評級進行分組。
Annual Report 2021 年報 189IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
As part of the Group’s credit risk management, the Group applies internal credit 作為本集團信貸風險管理之一部分，本
rating for its customers. The following table provides information about the 集團對其客戶進行內部信貸評級。下表
exposure to credit risk and loss allowance for trade receivables which are assessed 提供有關信貸風險承擔及應收賬款虧損
collectively based on provision matrix at 31 December 2021 and 2020 within 撥備之資料，有關虧損撥備於二零二一
lifetime ECL (not credit-impaired). At 31 December 2021, the credit-impaired 年及二零二零年十二月三十一日乃按全
debtors with gross carrying amounts of approximately HK$21.3 million (2020: 期預期信貸虧損（並無產生信貸減值）根
approximately HK$21.3 million) were assessed individually. 據撥備矩陣共同進行評估。於二零二一
年十二月三十一日，總賬面值約港幣
21.3百萬元（二零二零年：約港幣21.3百
萬元）之產生信貸減值之應收賬款乃個
別進行評估。
2021 二零二一年
Gross Impairment
Average carrying loss
Internal credit rating loss rate amount allowance
內部信貸評級 平均虧損率 總賬面值 減值虧損撥備
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Low risk 低風險 * 0.3 –^
Watch list 觀察清單 20.2% –^ –^
D oubtful 可 疑 96.4% 11.6 11.2
11.9 11.2
190 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
2020 二零二零年
Gross Impairment
Average carrying loss
Internal credit rating loss rate amount allowance
內部信貸評級 平均虧損率 總賬面值 減值虧損撥備
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Low risk 低風險 * – –
Watch list 觀察清單 25.3% 0.5 0.1
Doubtful 可疑 96.4% 11.4 11.0
11.9 11.1
* According to the historical observed default rates of the expected life of the low risk * 根據低風險債務人預期年期之過往已
debtors, the average loss rate is immaterial. 觀察違約率，平均虧損率並不重大。
^ Represents amounts less than HK$0.1 million. ^ 指金額少於港幣0.1百萬元。
The estimated loss rates are estimated based on historical observed default 估計虧損率乃基於債務人預期年期之過
rates over the expected life of the debtors and are adjusted for forward-looking 往已觀察違約率估計，並就毋須耗費不
information that is available without undue cost or effort. The grouping is regularly 當成本或精力即可得之前瞻性資料進行
reviewed by the management of the Group to ensure relevant information about 調整。本集團管理層定期審閱分類以
specific debtors is updated. 確保有關特定債務人之相關資料得以更
新。
During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Group provided a charge of 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年
approximately HK$0.1 million loss allowance (2020: a charge of approximately 度，本集團已根據撥備矩陣就未出現信
HK$8.6 million loss allowance) for trade receivables which are not credit-impaired, 貸減值之應收賬款計提虧損撥備費用約
based on the provision matrix and no further charge of loss allowance (2020: a 港幣0.1百萬元（二零二零年：計提虧損
charge of approximately HK$9.6 million) were made on credit-impaired debtors, 撥備約港幣8.6百萬元），而並無就產生
which have either been paced under liquidation or in financial difficulties. 信貸減值之債務人（其遭清盤或面對嚴
重財務困難）計提進一步虧損撥備（二零
二零年：計提約港幣9.6百萬元）。
Annual Report 2021 年報 191IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Credit risk (continued) 信貸風險（續）
Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 產生自客戶合約之應收賬款（續）
The following table shows the movement in lifetime ECL that has been recognised 下表顯示根據簡化方式已就應收賬款確
for trade receivables under the simplified approach. 認之全期預期信貸虧損變動。
Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL
(not credit- (credit-
impaired) impaired) Total
全期預期 全期
信貸虧損 預期信貸
（並無產生 虧損（產生
信貸減值） 信貸減值） 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 4.6 9.6 14.2
Changes due to financial instruments 確認之金融工具產生之變動：
recognised:
– Transfer to credit-impaired －轉撥至產生信貸減值 (2.1) 2.1 –
Charged to profit or loss 自損益扣除 8.6 9.6 18.2
At 31 December 2020 and 於二零二零年十二月三十一日
1 January 2021 及二零二一年一月一日 11.1 21.3 32.4
C harged to profit or loss 自 損益扣除 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日 11.2 21.3 32.5
At 31 December 2021, the Group had a concentration of credit risk as approximately 於二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集團
32.6% (2020: approximately 26.6%) of the total trade receivables was due from the 負有集中信貸風險，乃因應收賬款總額
Group’s largest trade debtor, and approximately 76.7% (2020: approximately 71.7%) 之約32.6%（二零二零年：約26.6%）來自
of the total trade receivables was due from the Group’s five largest trade debtors, 本集團最大債務人，且應收賬款總額之
respectively. 約76.7%（二零二零年：約71.7%）來自本
集團五大貿易債務人。
192 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Finance lease receivables 融資租賃應收款項
In 2021, the Group made provisions for credit impairment of financial lease 於二零二一年，本集團就融資租賃應收
receivables of approximately HK$8.6 million, mainly due to the recognition of the 款項之信貸減值作出撥備約港幣8.6百萬
difference between the carrying amount and the estimated recoverable amount 元，此乃主要由於將信貸減值融資租賃
of the credit-impaired financial lease receivables as a credit impairment loss after 應收款項的賬面值與估計可收回金額之
estimating its recoverable amount. Movement of allowances on finance lease 差異確認為預估其可收回金額後之信貸
receivables are as follows: 減值虧損。有關融資租賃應收款項撥備
之變動如下：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
At 1 January 於一月一日 – –
Increase in loss allowance 虧損撥備增加
– Charged to profit or loss －自損益扣除 8.6 –
A t 31 December 於 十二月三十一日 8.6 -
Annual Report 2021 年報 193IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 財務風險管理目標及政策（續）
Liquidity risk 流動資金風險
In the management of the liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains a level of 於管理流動資金風險方面，管理層認為
cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management of the Group to 本集團已監控及維持足夠之現金及等同
finance the Group’s operations and mitigates the effects of fluctuations in cash flows. 現金項目水平，以提供本集團經營業務
The management of the Group monitors the utilisation of borrowings and ensures 所需之資金及減低現金流量波動之影
compliance with loan covenants. 響。本集團管理層監控借貸之運用情況
及確保遵從貸款契約。
The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its financial 下表詳列按照協定的還款條款，本集團
liabilities based on the agreed repayment terms. For non-derivative financial liabilities, 金融負債之餘下合約到期日。就非衍生
the table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial 金融負債而言，該表乃根據按本集團可
liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. 被要求償還之最早日期計算之金融負債
The maturity dates for other non-derivative financial liabilities are based on agreed 之未貼現現金流量編製。其他非衍生金
repayment dates. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. 融負債之到期日則為其協定還款日。該
表包括利率及本金的現金流量。
Liquidity and interest risk tables 流動資金及利率風險表
Weightedaverage
On demand Over 1 year Over 2 years Total Total carrying
effective or within but within but within undiscounted amount at
interest rate 1 year 2 years 5 years cash flows year end
加權平均 應要求或 一年以上 兩年以上 未貼現現金 年末
實際利率 一年內 但兩年內 但五年內 流量總額 總賬面值
% HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
% 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年
十二月三十一日
Non-derivate financial liabilities 非衍生金融負債
Trade and other payables 應付賬款及其他應付款項 – 56.0 – – 56.0 56.0
Borrowings 借款 8.0 9.3 – 59.8 69.1 58.0
Lease liabilities 租賃負債 9.0 29.5 15.8 – 45.3 42.7
L oan from a shareholder 股 東貸款 – 203. 7 – – 203. 7 203. 7
298.5 15.8 59.8 374.1 360.4
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年
十二月三十一日
Non-derivate financial liabilities 非衍生金融負債
Trade and other payables 應付賬款及其他應付款項 – 52.7 – – 52.7 52.7
Borrowings 借款 8.0 – – 59.5 59.5 44.8
Lease liabilities 租賃負債 8.2 30.4 31.3 – 61.7 56.6
Loan from a shareholder 股東貸款 – 121.5 – – 121.5 121.5
204.6 31.3 59.5 295.4 275.6
194 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（續）
Fair value 公平值
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities at amortised cost are 按攤銷成本計算之金融資產及金融負債
determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on 之公平值乃根據以貼現現金流量分析為
discounted cash flow analysis. 基礎的公認定價模型釐定。
The management of the Group considers that the carrying amount of financial 本集團管理層認為於綜合財務報表中以
assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the consolidated financial 攤銷成本記錄之金融資產及金融負債之
statements approximates to their fair values. 賬面值與其公平值相若。
30. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING 30. 融資活動所產生負債對賬
ACTIVITIES
The table below details changes in the Group’s liabilities arising from financing 下表載列本集團自融資活動所產生負債
activities, including both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing 之變動（包括現金及非現金變動）詳情。
activities are that for which cash flow was, or future cash flow will be, classified in the 自融資活動所產生的負債為本集團於綜
Group’s consolidated statement of cash flow as cash flow from financing activities. 合現金流量表分類為融資活動所得現金
流量的現金流量或未來現金流量。
Loan from Lease
a shareholder Borrowings liabilities Total
股東貸款 借款 租賃負債 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 69.0 39.2 5.0 113.2
Additions of investment properties 添置投資物業及使用權資產
and right-of-use assets – – 59.9 59.9
Financing cash flow 融資現金流量 52.5 – (8.9) 43.6
Exchange differences 匯兌差額 – 3.0 – 3.0
Finance costs 融資成本 – 2.6 0.6 3.2
At 31 December 2020 and 於二零二零年十二月三十一日
1 January 2021 及二零二一年一月一日 121.5 44.8 56.6 222.9
Financing cash flow 融資現金流量 82.2 9.3 (17.7) 73.8
Exchange differences 匯兌差額 – 1.0 – 1.0
Finance costs 融 資成本 – 2. 9 3. 8 6. 7
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月三十一日 203.7 58.0 42.7 304.4
Annual Report 2021 年報 195IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
31. DIVIDEND 31. 股息
No dividend was paid or proposed for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
2020, nor has any dividend been proposed since the end of the reporting periods. 三十一日止年度，概無派付或建議派付
股息，及自報告期末起並無建議派付股
息。
32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS 32. 或然負債╱訴訟
(a) In December 2020, there was a litigation initiated by a supplier of the Group (a) 於二零二零年十二月，本集團
in Hong Kong claiming the allegedly due and unpaid balance of purchase 於香港的一名供應商鑒於本集
orders against a subsidiary of the Group in Hong Kong in view of unilateral 團附屬公司單方面取消金額約為
cancellation of purchase orders by the subsidiary of the Group for a sum of 334,000美元（相當於約港幣2.6百
approximately US$334,000 (equivalent to approximately HK$2.6 million). 萬元）的採購訂單而提起訴訟，
The management of the Group, having obtained the legal advice from an 就其聲稱的本集團於香港的一間
independent legal counsel, estimated that the Group will likely be liable to 附屬公司採購訂單之到期未付結
pay for the total and, therefore, the Group had recognised the provision for 餘提出申索。本集團管理層經獲
losses on litigations of approximately HK$2.3 million in profit or loss for the 取獨立法律顧問之法律意見後，
year ended 31 December 2020. During the year ended 31 December 2021, 估計本集團將有可能傾向於支付
the litigation is still in process. 總額，因此本集團於截至二零二
零年十二月三十一日止年度之損
益內確認計提訴訟虧損約港幣2.3
百萬元。截至二零二一年十二月
三十一日止年度，該訴訟仍在受
理中。
Subsequently, on 12 April 2022, the Group has filed a Consent Summons 其後，於二零二二年四月十二
for settlement to the District Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 日，本集團已向香港特別行政
Region. According to the Consent Summons, the settlement sum was 區區域法院提交和解同意傳訊令
reduced to approximately US$130,000 (equivalent to approximately HK$1.0 狀。根據同意傳訊令狀，和解金
million) and was agreed to be settled by instalments on without admission of 額減至約130,000美元（相當於約
liability basis. On 11 May 2022, the Consent Summons was approved. As a 港幣1.0百萬元）並同意在不承認
result, a reversal of provision for losses on litigations of approximately HK$1.3 責任之基礎上分期付款結清。於
million had been recognised in “Provision for losses on litigations, net” in 二零二二年五月十一日，同意傳
“Other losses, net” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 訊令狀獲批准。因此，訴訟虧損
comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2021. 撥備撥回約港幣1.3百萬元已於截
至二零二一年十二月三十一日止
年度的綜合損益及其他全面收益
表內「其他虧損，淨額」中的「訴訟
虧損撥備淨額」確認。
196 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS (continued) 32. 或然負債╱訴訟（續）
(b) In 2020, the Group received a notice from a District Court in the PRC (the (b) 於二零二零年，本集團接獲中國
“PRC Court”) stating that a supplier of the Group in the PRC has initiated 地方法院（「中國法院」）的通知，
legal action against certain subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by claiming 稱本集團於中國的一名供應商已
the allegedly due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees from the Group. 針對本集團的若干中國附屬公司
In respect of the aforesaid due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees 提起法律訴訟，就其聲稱的應收
approximately HK$5.5 million had been recognised in “Trade payables” at 31 本集團分包費之到期未付結餘
December 2021 and 2020. 提出申索。上述到期未付分包費
結餘約為港幣5.5百萬元，已於
二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
三十一日於「應付賬款」內確認。
According to judgements dated 16 August 2021 issued by the PRC Court, 根據中國法院日期為二零二一年
the Group was liable to make payment of approximately RMB4.9 million and 八月十六日之判決，本集團須分
approximately RMB0.1 million (equivalent to approximately HK$6.0 million 別支付約人民幣4.9百萬元及約人
and approximately HK$0.1 million) as settlement of subcontracting fees and 民幣0.1百萬元（相當於約港幣6.0
material costs, respectively. The Group has then filed an appeal for such 百萬元及約港幣0.1百萬元）以結
judgements to the PRC Court. 算分包費及材料成本。本集團已
就該等判決向中國法院提出上訴。
Based on the legal advice obtained from an independent legal counsel, the 基於一名獨立法律顧問的法律
management of the Group considered no further provision for litigation was 建議，本集團管理層認為，於
required to be made for the year ended 31 December 2021. Subsequent to 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日
the 31 December 2021 and up to the date of approving these consolidated 止年度內無須為有關訴訟進一步
financial statements, the litigation is still in process. 計提撥備。於二零二一年十二月
三十一日後及直至批准本綜合財
務報表日期，訴訟仍在受理中。
Annual Report 2021 年報 197IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS (continued) 32. 或然負債╱訴訟（續）
(c) During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Group received several (c) 於截至二零二一年十二月三十一
notices from the PRC Court stating that a group of ten individuals former 日止年度，本集團接獲中國法院
employees and three individuals former employees of the Group in the PRC 的若干通知，稱由本集團中國的
has initiated legal action against subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by 十名個別前任僱員及三名個別前
claiming compensation of the dismissal of labour contract in view of breach of 任僱員組成的小組已對本集團於
terms in employment agreement by the Group. Pursuant to the judgements 中國的附屬公司提起訴訟，要求
made by the court of the PRC, the Group was ordered to make payment 就本集團違反僱傭協議中的條款
amounting to approximately HK$2.8 million which had been recognised 而解除勞動合同獲得賠償。根據
in “Provision for losses on litigations, net” in “Other losses, net” in the 中國法院的判決，本集團被責令
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for 立即支付約港幣2.8百萬元，該
the year ended 31 December 2021. 款項已於截至二零二一年十二月
三十一日止年度的綜合損益及其
他全面收益表內「其他虧損，淨
額」中的「訴訟虧損撥備淨額」確
認。
For the case against the group of ten individuals former employees, 就十名前任僱員的案件而言，向
which payment to them was approximately RMB1.7 million (equivalent 彼等支付的款項約為人民幣1.7百
to approximately HK$2.0 million); the Group has been trying to reach a 萬元（相當於約港幣2.0百萬元）；
settlement agreement with them subsequent to the judgement issued by the 在中國法院作出判決後，本集團
PRC Court. As for the remaining cases of three individuals former employees, 一直試圖與彼等達成和解協議。
which the total payments to them were approximately RMB0.7 million 至於餘下的三名前任僱員案件，
(equivalent to approximately HK$0.8 million), the Group has filed for appeals 向彼等支付的款項總額約為人民
for such judgements to the PRC Court. 幣0.7百萬元（相當於約港幣0.8百
萬元），本集團已就該等判決向中
國法院提出上訴。
Subsequent to the 31 December 2021 and up to the date of approving these 於二零二一年十二月三十一日後
consolidated financial statements, the Group has yet to reach a settlement 及直至批准本綜合財務報表日
agreement with the group of ten former empolyees and the litigations 期，本集團尚未與十名前任僱員
concerning the three individuals former employees are still in process. 達成和解協議，有關三名個別前
任僱員的訴訟仍在受理中。
198 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS (continued) 32. 或然負債╱訴訟（續）
Other than the disclosure of above and elsewhere in the consolidated financial 除上述及其他於綜合財務報表中的披露
statements, at the end of the reporting period, the Group was not involved in any 外，於報告期末，本集團未牽涉任何其
other material litigation or arbitration. As far as the management of the Group was 他重大訴訟或仲裁。據本集團管理層所
aware, the Group had no other material litigation or claim which was pending or 知，本集團並無其他未決或威脅本集團
threatened against the Group. At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Group was the 的重大訴訟或申索。於二零二一年及二
defendant of certain non-material litigations, and also a party to certain litigations 零二零年十二月三十一日，本集團為
arising from the ordinary course of business of the Group. The likely outcome of 若干非重大訴訟的被告，亦於本集團的
these contingent liabilities, litigations or other legal proceedings cannot be ascertained 日常業務過程中牽涉若干訴訟。目前尚
with reasonable certainty at present, but the management of the Group believes 無法確定該等或有負債、訴訟或其他法
that any possible legal liability which may be incurred from the aforesaid cases will 律程序的可能結果，但本集團管理層認
not have any material impact on the financial position or results of the Group. 為，上述案件可能引起的任何可能法律
責任將不會對本集團的財務狀況或業績
產生任何重大影響。
33. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 33. 關聯方交易
Apart from the transactions and the balances with related parties disclosed 除此綜合財務報表其他章節詳述與關聯
elsewhere in the consolidated financial statements, the Group also entered into 方的交易及結餘外，本集團於截至二零
the following significant transactions with related parties during the years ended 31 二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日止
December 2021 and 2020: 年度曾與關聯方進行以下重大交易：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Remuneration for key management personnel 本集團主要管理人員薪酬：
of the Group:
Salaries, allowances and other benefits 薪金、津貼及其他福利 3.1 3.7
R etirement benefits scheme contributions 退 休福利計劃供款 0.3 0.1
3.4 3.8
The remuneration of directors of the Company and other members of key 本公司董事及其他主要管理人員之薪酬
management is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the 由薪酬委員會按個別人士之表現及市場
performance of individuals and market trends. 薪酬水平釐定。
Annual Report 2021 年報 199IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
34. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 34. 主要附屬公司
At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Company’s principal subsidiaries are all 於二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
indirectly wholly-owned by the Company. Details of the Company’s principal 三十一日，本公司主要附屬公司均為本
subsidiaries at 31 December 2021 and 2020 are as follows: 公司間接全資擁有。本公司主要附屬公
司於二零二一年及二零二零年十二月
三十一日之詳情如下：
Nominal value
Place of of issued
incorporation/ ordinary share/
Name of subsidiary establishment registered capital Principal activities
註冊成立╱ 已發行普通
附屬公司名稱 成立地點 股份面值╱註冊資本 主要業務
IDT Technology Limited Hong Kong HK$2 Trading of consumer electronic products
萬威科研有限公司 香港 港幣2元 經銷電子消費產品
萬威電子（深圳）有限公司 (Note) The PRC HK$35,000,000 Manufacture of consumer electronic products
萬威電子（深圳）有限公司（附註） 中國 港幣35,000,000元 and plastic parts and provision of surface
mount technology assembly services
製造電子消費產品及塑膠部件及提供表面
接合技術
Oregon Scientific Global Hong Kong HK$2 Marketing and distribution of consumer
Distribution Limited 香港 港幣2元 electronic products
歐西亞環球有限公司 推廣及分銷電子消費產品
Note: This is a wholly foreign owned enterprise established in the PRC. 附註： 於中國成立之外商獨資企業。
All of the above subsidiaries operate principally in their respective place of 上述所有附屬公司均主要在其註冊成
incorporation/establishment. 立╱成立地點經營。
The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the 上表只列出董事認為對本集團業績或資
directors, principally affect the results or assets of the Group. To give details of 產有重要影響之本公司附屬公司。本公
other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors of the Company, result in 司董事認為詳細列明其他附屬公司之資
particulars of excessive length. 料將過於冗長。
None of the subsidiaries had issued any debt securities outstanding at the end of the 於報告期末，各附屬公司均無發行任何
reporting period. 尚未償還之債務證券。
200 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
35. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 35. 本公司的財務資料
Financial information of the Company at the end of the reporting period includes: 於報告期末，本公司的財務資料包括：
2021 2020
二零二一年 二零二零年
HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
Non-current assets 非流動資產
I nterest in subsidiaries 於 附屬公司的權益 – –
Current assets 流動資產
Other receivables 其他應收款項 –* –
B ank balances and cash 銀 行結餘及現金 –* 0.1
–* 0.1
Current liabilities 流動負債
Other payables 其他應付款項 3.3 3.0
A mounts due to subsidiaries 應 付附屬公司款項 12.0 9.4
15.3 12.4
N et liabilities 負 債淨值 (15.3) (12.3)
Capital and reserves 股本及儲備
Share capital 股本 260.0 260.0
R eserves (Note (a)) 儲 備（附註(a)） (275.3) (272.3)
N et deficit 虧 絀淨額 (15.3) (12.3)
* Represents amounts less than HK$0.1 million. * 指金額少於港幣0.1百萬元。
The statement of financial position was approved and authorised for issue by the 財務狀況表已於二零二二年五月三十一
Board of Directors on 31 May 2022 and signed on its behalf by: 日獲董事會批准及授權發行，並由下列
人士代表簽署：
Zhu Yongning Zhou Rui 朱永寧 周銳
Director Director 董事 董事
Annual Report 2021 年報 201IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
35. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY (continued) 35. 本公司的財務資料（續）
Reserves of the Company 本公司儲備
Share Accumulated
premium losses Total
股份溢價 累計虧損 總額
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
At 1 January 2020 於二零二零年一月一日 165.0 (433.0) (268.0)
Loss and total comprehensive loss 本年度虧損及全面虧損總額
for the year – (4.3) (4.3)
At 31 December 2020 於二零二零年十二月
and 1 January 2021 三十一日及二零二一年
一月一日 165.0 (437.3) (272.3)
Loss and total comprehensive loss 本年度虧損及全面虧損總額
for the year – (3.0) (3.0)
At 31 December 2021 於二零二一年十二月
三十一日 165.0 (440.3) (275.3)
202 Annual Report 2021 年報IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
綜合財務報表附註
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
36. EVENT AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD 36. 報告期末後事項
Since January 2022, the surge of COVID-19 cases and the implementation of the 自二零二二年一月起，COVID-19病
tightened COVID-19 prevention and control quarantine measures in the PRC and 例數激增，中國及香港實施更嚴格的
Hong Kong has hampered the audit progress, and COVID-19 pandemic has affected COVID-19防控檢疫措施已阻礙審計進
the Group’s operation to the extent that the production of the Group’s factory in 度，且COVID-19疫情對本集團營運造
Shenzhen was temporarily suspended with effect from 5 March 2022 until further 成影響，致使本集團於深圳的生產工廠
notice (as disclosed in the Company’s announcement dated 7 March 2022). The 自二零二二年三月五日起暫停生產，直
Group will keep continuous attention on the situation of the COVID-19 and react 至另行通知為止（如本公司日期為二零
actively to its impact on the financial position and operating results of the Group. 二二年三月七日之公佈所披露）。本集
團將持續關注COVID-19的情況並積極
應對其對本集團的財務狀況及經營業績
造成的影響。
Following up to the temporarily suspension of its Shenzhen factory, the Group, after 繼深圳工廠暫停生產後，本集團經友好
friendly negotiation, has reached an intention with the landlord to early terminate 協商，已與業主達成意向，提前終止或
or modify part of its lease agreements of certain buildings of the Group in the 修訂本集團在中國若干樓宇的部分租賃
PRC (the “Intended Lease Arrangement”). However, as the settlement plan of the 協議（「擬訂租賃安排」）。然而，由於擬
Intended Lease Arrangement is still under negotiation, it is not practicable to reliably 訂租賃安排的結算方案仍在磋商中，所
estimate its financial effect. The management of the Group is closely monitoring 以暫未能可靠地估計其財務影響。本集
the development of the Intended Lease Arrangement and continue to evaluate the 團管理層正密切監控擬訂租賃安排的發
impact on the business, the results and financial position of the Group. 展，並繼續評估對本集團業務、業績及
財務狀況的影響。
Annual Report 2021 年報 203IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 萬威國際有限公司
Group Financial Summary
集團財務概要
For the year ended 31 December 2021
截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度
Year ended 31 December
截至十二月三十一日止年度
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零一九年 二零一八年 二零一七年
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
RESULTS 業績
R evenue 收 益 17. 1 55. 4 270. 4 433. 2 516. 6
Loss before taxation 除稅前虧損 (84.2) (95.8) (83.1) (203.3) (85.7)
Taxation 稅項 – – – (12. 3) －
L oss for the year 本 年度虧損 (84. 2) (95. 8) (83. 1) (215. 6) (85. 7)
Attributable to: 以下人士應佔：
Owners of the Company 本公司擁有人 (84.2) (95.8) (83.1) (215.6) (85.7)
Non-controlling interests 非控股權益 – – – – –
(84. 2) (95. 8) (83. 1) (215. 6) (85. 7)
Loss per share 每股虧損
– Basic and diluted (HK cents) －基本及攤薄（港仙） (3.24) HK cents (3.68) HK cents (3.20) HK cents (8.29) HK cents (3.30) HK cents
港仙 港仙 港仙 港仙 港仙
As at 31 December
於十二月三十一日
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
二零二一年 二零二零年 二零一九年 二零一八年 二零一七年
HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million
港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元 港幣百萬元
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 資產及負債
Total assets 總資產 81.3 91.7 101.9 215.2 408.1
Total liabilities 總負債 (386. 9) (313. 0) (227. 0) (258. 2) (228. 4)
(305. 6) (221. 3) (125. 1) (43. 0) 179. 7
Equity attributable to owners 本公司擁有人
of the Company 應佔權益 (305.7) (221.4) (125.2) (43.1) 179.6
Non-controlling interests 非控股權益 0. 1 0. 1 0. 1 0. 1 0. 1
(305. 6) (221. 3) (125. 1) (43. 0) 179. 7
204 Annual Report 2021 年報