2 0 2 1ANNUAL年REPORT报创 新 点 亮 生活Embracing innovationsthat enhance the quality of lifeContents目录Corporate Information Independent Auditor’s Report2 93公司资料 独立核数师报告Chairman’s Statement Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and6主席报告书 96 Other Comprehensive Income综合损益及其他全面收益表Directors and Senior Management of the Group10本集团董事及高级管理层 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position97综合财务状况表Management Discussion and Analysis16管理层讨论及分析 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity99综合权益变动表Corporate Governance Report25企业管治报告书 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows100综合现金流量表Environmental, Social and Governance Report52环境、社会及管治报告 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements102综合财务报表附注Directors’ Report77董事会报告书 Group Financial Summary204集团财务概要IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Information公司资料BOARD OF DIRECTORS 董事会Executive Director: 执行董事：Zhu Yongning (Chief Executive Officer) 朱永宁（首席执行官）Non-Executive Director: 非执行董事：Cui Xiao 崔啸Independent Non-Executive Directors: 独立非执行董事：Zhou Meilin 周美林Zhou Rui 周锐Xu Jinwen 徐锦文EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 执行委员会Zhu Yongning 朱永宁AUDIT COMMITTEE 审核委员会Zhou Meilin (Chairman) 周美林（主席）Xu Jinwen 徐锦文Zhou Rui 周锐NOMINATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 提名及企业管治委员会Zhou Rui (Chairman) 周锐（主席）Zhou Meilin 周美林Xu Jinwen 徐锦文REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 薪酬委员会Xu Jinwen (Chairman) 徐锦文（主席）Zhou Meilin 周美林Zhou Rui 周锐COMPANY SECRETARY 公司秘书Chen Kun (Appointed on 1 April 2021) 陈坤（于二零二一年四月一日获委任）AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVES 授权代表Shum Shing Kei (Resigned on 31 March 2021) 沈成基（于二零二一年三月三十一日辞任）Zhu Yongning 朱永宁Chen Kun (Appointed on 1 April 2021) 陈坤（于二零二一年四月一日获委任）PRINCIPAL BANKERS 主要往来银行The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 香港上海汇丰银行有限公司Hang Seng Bank Limited 恒生银行有限公司2 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Information公司资料AUDITOR 核数师Mazars CPA Limited 中审众环（香港）会计师事务所有限公司LEGAL ADVISORS 法律顾问Bermuda: 百慕大：Conyers Dill & Pearman Conyers Dill & PearmanHong Kong: 香港：Peter Chen Law Office 陈坤律师行SHARE REGISTRARS 股份过户登记处Bermuda: 百慕大：Conyers Corporate Services (Bermuda) Limited Conyers Corporate Services (Bermuda) LimitedClarendon House Clarendon House2 Church Street 2 Church StreetHamilton, HM 11 Bermuda Hamilton, HM 11 BermudaHong Kong: 香港：Union Registrars Limited 联合证券登记有限公司Suites 3301–04, 33/F. 香港Two Chinachem Exchange Square 北角338 King’s Road 英皇道338号North Point 华懋交易广场2期Hong Kong 33楼3301–04室BERMUDA REGISTERED OFFICE 百慕大注册办事处Clarendon House Clarendon House2 Church Street 2 Church StreetHamilton HM 11 Hamilton HM 11Bermuda BermudaPRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS IN HONG KONG 香港主要营业地点Block E, 9th Floor, Phase 1, Kaiser Estate 香港41 Man Yue Street 九龙Hunghom 红磡Kowloon 民裕街41号Hong Kong 凯旋工商中心1期9楼E座STOCK CODE 股份代号167 167WEBSITES 网址www.idthk.com www.idthk.comAnnual Report 2021 年报 3智 能 家 居Connected Home & Communication洞悉先机Ahead of TimeIDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Chairman’sStatement主席报告书DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, 致各股东：On behalf of the board (the “Board”) of directors (each, a “Director”) of IDT International 本人谨代表万威国际有限公司（“本公司”，连Limited (the “Company”, together with its subsidiaries, collectively, the “Group” or “we” or 同其附属公司统称为“本集团”或“我们”）之董“us”), I am pleased to present the Group’s annual results for the year ended 31 December 事（各“董事”）会（“董事会”）欣然提呈本集团2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year” and for the year ended 31 December 2020, “FY2020”). 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度（“二零二一年年度”或“本年度”及截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度“二零二零年年度”）之年度业绩。FINANCIAL RESULTS 财务业绩The Group’s total revenue for the Year amounted to approximately HK$17.1 million 于本年度，本集团录得总收益约为港币17.1百(FY2020: approximately HK$55.4 million), which was due to the global impact of the 万元（二零二零年年度：约港币55.4百万元）。COVID-19, leading to the economic downturn. 这是由于全球范围内的COVID-19造成的疫情影响，导致经济低迷。6 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Chairman’s Statement主席报告书Gross profit of the Year totalled approximately HK$1.8 million (FY2020: approximately 本年度毛利总额约为港币1.8百万元（二零二HK$5.6 million). Gross profit was decreased by approximately 67.9% for the Year, 零年年度：约港币5.6百万元）。于本年度毛the Group continues to face with the challenges with the unprecedent impact of the 利减少约67.9%，本集团于本年度持续面临COVID-19 in the Year, the reduction of overseas sales leads to a decrease in gross COVID-19前所未有的影响带来的挑战，海外profit. The gross profit margin was increased from approximately 10.1% for FY2020 to 销售量减少，导致毛利下降。毛利率由二零approximately 10.5% for FY2021. 二零年年度之约10.1%增加至二零二一年年度之约10.5%。The Group continued to execute stringent cost controls and streamline organisational 本集团继续实施严格的成本控制、精简组织structure and operational procedures. Total operating expenses of the Group, including 架构和运营程序。本集团于本年度的总营运research costs, distribution and selling expenses and general administrative expenses, 开支约为港币64.8百万元（二零二零年年度：amounted to approximately HK$64.8 million for the Year (FY2020: approximately 约港币91.5百万元）。该等开支包括研究费HK$91.5 million). The total operating expense was decreased by approximately 29.2% 用、分销及销售开支及一般行政开支。总营since the distribution and selling expense has dropped for approximately 63.3% which was 运开支减少约29.2%乃因分销及销售开支下跌attributable to the decrease in turnover. Further, research expense reduced by 49.5%. 约63.3%，可归因于营业额减少。此外，本集团研究开支减少49.5%。Other income during the Year was mainly come from subleasing of right-of-use assets/ 本年度其他收入乃主要来自分租使用权资rented premises amounted to approximately HK$1.9 million (FY2020: approximately 产╱出租物业约港币1.9百万元（二零二零年年HK$10.9 million). The other losses, net during the Year was recorded as approximately 度：约港币10.9百万元）。本年度录得其他亏HK$0.6 million (FY2020: approximately HK$4.7 million), and it was mainly attributable to 损，净额约港币0.6百万元（二零二零年年度：provision for losses on litigations. 约港币4.7百万元），其乃主要由于诉讼亏损拨备。Charge of loss allowance on financial assets for the Year was recorded as approximately 本年度扣除金融资产亏损拨备约为港币8.7百HK$8.7 million (FY2020: approximately HK$18.2 million) due to decrease in credit loss of 万元（二零二零年年度：约港币18.2百万元），trade receivables. 乃由于应收账款的信贷亏损减少。Loss for FY2021 was approximately HK$84.2 million (FY2020: approximately HK$95.8 二零二一年年度之亏损约为港币84.2百万元million). （二零二零年年度：约港币95.8百万元）。Annual Report 2021 年报 7IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Chairman’s Statement主席报告书OUTLOOK 前景Because of the outbreak of COVID-19 since early 2020 (and there had been several major 由于COVID-19自二零二零年年初开始于内地waves of spread) in the Mainland as well as other parts of the globe, the Group’s business 及全球其他地区爆发（并出现数波大规模蔓延has been significantly affected. Due to resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021 and 浪潮），本集团业务受到严重影响。由于二the impact of the trade war on the global supply chain, the consumer electronic industry 零二一年COVID-19疫情反复及贸易战对全球has suffered serious disruption in development. Because of such outbreak, a significant 供应链的冲击，消费电子产品行业发展深受number of orders placed or expected to be placed by the customers of the Group had 其害。由于疫情爆发，本集团客户已经或预been cancelled or not proceeded. With ease of adverse impact of COVID-19 in overseas 计将下达的订单大量取消或不再执行。随着countries and that the PRC government might ultimately adjust its zero-COVID policy by COVID-19对海外国家的不利影响缓解，以及abandoning lockdown measures, it is hopeful that the orders from overseas customers will 中国政府或会最终调整COVID-19清零政策而regain momentum and confidence in the China-based suppliers which will no longer be 放弃封锁措施，中国供应商终将解除封锁干disrupted by lockdown. 扰，海外客户订单有望重拾动力及信心。Thus, the Board considered that the impact of COVID-19 should only be temporary, and 因此，董事会认为COVID-19影响是暂时性the situation should improve substantially thereafter. The business of the Group should 的，后续形势势必大幅好转。本集团业务将remain sustainable in the long run. 保持长期可持续发展。In long term, the Company is adjusting its business focus on design and sales which only 长远来看，本公司正在调整业务重点，以专require light asset. 注于仅需轻资产的设计及销售。8 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Chairman’s Statement主席报告书APPRECIATION 致谢On behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to express my gratitude to all shareholders 本人谨代表董事会感谢各股东及业务伙伴一and business associates for the continuous support. Our deep appreciation also goes to 直对本集团之支持，亦感谢管理团队及全体the management team and staff members for their hard work and dedication in the past 员工于上个财政期间内的辛勤工作及尽心服financial period. 务。Zhu Yongning 首席执行官Chief Executive Officer 朱永宁31 May 2022 二零二二年五月三十一日Hong Kong 香港Annual Report 2021 年报 9IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors and Senior Management of the Group本集团董事及高级管理层EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 执行董事Zhu Yongning 朱永宁Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, aged 53. Mr. Zhu graduated from Fudan 首席执行官兼执行董事，53岁。朱先生毕业于University of Shanghai with a master degree in international finance, and is a senior 上海复旦大学国际金融专业，取得硕士学economist. He has over 30 years of working experience in the financial sector. Mr. Zhu 位，为高级经济师，彼有超过30年金融专业is the director of Christine International Holding Limited, whose stock code is 01210, 工作经验。朱先生现亦担任克莉丝汀国际控and Jiangsu Nandasoft Technology Company Limited, whose stock code is 08045. Since 股有限公司（股份代号：01210）及江苏南大苏1990, Mr. Zhu served successively of the international business department of China 富特科技股份有限公司（股份代号：08045）之Construction Bank in Jiangsu province, president of a sub-branch of China Investment Bank 董事。自一九九零年起，朱先生曾先后供职under its Jiangsu branch, sub-branch of China Everbright Bank. 于江苏省中国建设银行国际业务部、中国投资银行江苏省分行支行行长、中国光大银行某支行行长。NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 非执行董事Cui Xiao 崔啸Non-Executive Director, aged 44, joined Hongtu SanPower Advanced Technology 非执行董事，44岁，于二零零一年加盟江苏Limited* (“Hongtu Sanbao”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jiangsu Hongtu High 宏图高科技股份有限公司（“江苏宏图”）之全Technology Co., Ltd.* (“Jiangsu Hongtu”) in 2001 and served as Hongtu Sanbao’s director 资附属公司宏图三胞高科技术有限公司（“宏of information department, network maintenance department, and is currently working at 图三胞”），并曾担任宏图三胞之信息部部the human resources corporate governance and administration centre of Hongtu Sanbao. 长、网络维护部部长，现就职于宏图三胞Since 28 February 2020, Mr. Cui is a supervisor of Jiangsu Hongtu, a company established in 之人力企管行政中心。自二零二零年二月the People’s Republic of China with limited liability, whose shares are listed on the Shanghai 二十八日为江苏宏图（一间于中华人民共和国Stock Exchange (stock code: 600122). He obtained a bachelor degree in economics and 成立的有限公司，其股份于上海证券交易所administration management from Nanjing Politics College of People’s Liberation Army of 上市（股份代号：600122））之监事。崔先生于China in 2012. 二零一二年自中国人民解放军南京政治学院获取经济与行政管理学士学位。10 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors and Senior Management of the Group本集团董事及高级管理层INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 独立非执行董事Zhou Meilin 周美林Independent Non-Executive Director, the chairman of the audit committee, a member 独立非执行董事、审核委员会主席以及提名of nomination and corporate governance committee and remuneration committee of 及企业管治委员会和董事会薪酬委员会成the Board, aged 55. Mr. Zhou is a Chinese practicing lawyer, Chinese certified public 员，55岁。周先生是中国执业律师、中国注accountant (Non-practicing), tax agent, and part-time teacher of Nanjing University of 册会计师（非执业）、税务师、南京财经大学finance and economics. 兼职教师。From January 2016, Mr. Zhou joined Jiangsu Deqing law firm as lawyer. Before that, Mr. 自二零一六年一月至今，周先生加入江苏德Zhou worked for Nanjing Xuanwu Tax Bureau from July 1985 to December 2015, took 擎律师事务所任律师。在此之前，周先生于the different positions including tax administration, tax collection and management, financial 一九八五年七月至二零一五年十二月期间management, tax audit (from 1995 to 1996, Mr. Zhou worked for Nanjing Shicheng 在江苏省南京市玄武区税务局工作，从事过Accounting (Tax) Firm). During the period in the tax bureau, Mr. Zhou was employed as a 税政、征管、财务管理、稽查等岗位（其中part-time teacher in tax system, participated in the compilation of provincial and municipal 一九九五年至一九九六年，周先生就职于南tax system risk platforms and inspection guidelines for many times, and participated in 京石城会计（税务）师事务所）。在税务局任dozens of enterprise bankruptcy, reform, restructuring and merger and acquisition work. 职期间，周先生被聘为税务系统兼职教师，By virtue of his profound business skills, Mr. Zhou has won the title of tax system business 多次参加省市税务系统风险平台和稽查指南expert for many times. Mr. Zhou is an independent non-executive director of Jiangsu 的编写，参加过数十起企业破产、改制、重Nandasoft Technology Company Limited* whose share are listed in Hong Kong with stock 组、并购工作，凭借其深厚的业务功力多次code 08045 since 3 December 2020. Mr. Zhou is an independent non-executive director 获得税务系统业务能手的称号。自二零二零of Jiangsu ZhongQi Technology Company Limited* (stock code: SZ300575) since 22 April 年十二月三日起，周先生获委任为江苏南大2021. 苏富特科技股份有限公司（香港上市公司，股份代号：08045）独立非执行董事。自二零二一年四月二十二日起，周先生获委任为江苏中旗科技股份有限公司（股份代号：SZ300575）独立非执行董事。Mr. Zhou has extensive experience in accounting, internal control, financial statement 周先生在会计、企业内部控制、财务报表分analysis, tax planning and related laws; he is good at enterprise initial public offerings, 析、税务筹划及相关法律等方面有丰富的经reorganisation, merger and acquisition, bankruptcy, tax dispute settlement, tax risk 验，擅长企业上市、重组、并购、破产、税prevention and tax planning. Mr. Zhou holds a bachelor’s degree from Nanjing Normal 收争议的解决、税务风险防范和税务筹划。University. 周先生拥有南京师范大学本科学历。Annual Report 2021 年报 11IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors and Senior Management of the Group本集团董事及高级管理层Zhou Rui 周锐Independent Non-Executive Director, the chairman of the nomination and corporate 独立非执行董事、提名及企业管治委员会主governance committee, and a member of the remuneration committee and the audit 席兼薪酬委员会及董事会审核委员会成员，committee of the Board, aged 36. Mr. Zhou Rui is the vice president of China Galaxy 36岁。自二零一五年至今，周锐先生任职中Securities from 2015 up to present, mainly responsible for business development and 国银河证券股份有限公司副总裁，主要负责providing investment, fund-raising consultant service to public and private company. During 带领团队开拓业务及为公众及私人公司提供August 2012 to February 2014, Mr. Zhou Rui worked in Beijing Hony Future Investment 投融资顾问服务。周锐先生于二零一二年八Advisor Ltd as a senior manager, responsible for finding right investment project, executing 月至二零一四年二月担任北京弘毅远方投资due diligence and investment and after investment management. During August 2009 顾问有限公司高级经理职务，负责投资项目to August 2012, Mr. Zhou Rui served as a supervisor of China International Capital 挖掘、调研、投资和投后管理等。周锐先生Corporation Limited, responsible for securities trading system’s design and testing. Mr. 于二零零九年八月至二零一二年八月担任中Zhou Rui holds a master degree in Mathematics from Nanjing University. 国国际金融有限公司主管，负责证券交易系统的设计和测试工作。周锐先生持有南京大学数学硕士学位。12 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors and Senior Management of the Group本集团董事及高级管理层Xu Jinwen 徐锦文Independent Non-Executive Director and the chairman of the remuneration committee 独立非执行董事兼薪酬委员会主席、提名及and the nomination and corporate governance committee and the audit committee of the 企业管治委员会以及董事会审核委员会成Board, aged 56. Mr. Xu is the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and executive 员，56岁。徐先生现任长江证券国际金融集Director of Changjiang Securities International Financial Group Limited, and independent 团有限公司董事会主席兼首席执行官，并为执non-executive Director of Shenzhen Zhongheng Hwafa Co., Ltd, the shares of which are 行董事，及担任深交所上市公司深圳中恒华listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE: 000020 and 200020). Mr. Xu served as the 发股份有限公司（股票代码：000020及200020）deputy general manager of China Construction Bank Hubei Provincial Trust and Investment 独立非执行董事一职。徐先生于一九九零Corporation (中国建设银行湖北省信托投资公司) from December 1990 to October 年十二月至一九九五年十月担任中国建设1995. He worked in Guotai Securities Limited Hubei Branch* (国泰证券有限公司湖北分 银行湖北省信托投资公司副总经理。彼于公司) as the deputy general manager, and Guotai Junan Securities Limited Jiangxi Branch* 一九九五年十月至二零零二年十一月先后担(国泰君安证券股份有限公司江西分公司) as the general manager from October 任国泰证券有限公司湖北分公司常务副总、1995 to November 2002. Mr. Xu worked as president in Golden Sun Securities Limited* 国泰君安证券股份有限公司江西分公司总经(国盛证券有限公司) from November 2002 to April 2006. Mr. Xu served as the chairman 理。徐先生于二零零二年十一月至二零零六in Changjiang BNP Paribas Peregrine Securities Co., Ltd. from April 2006 to May 2007. 年四月担任国盛证券有限公司总裁。徐先生Mr. Xu was the executive vice president and the secretary of the board of Changjiang 于二零零六年四月至二零零七年五月担任长Securities Company Limited from May 2007 to March 2016. Mr. Xu has over 30 years 江巴黎百富勤证券有限责任公司董事长。徐of experience working in the financial industry, and he particularly worked in the area of 先生于二零零七年五月至二零一六年三月担securities for more than 20 years. He is very familiar with China and overseas financial 任长江证券股份有限公司执行副总裁兼董事markets and products, with extensive experience in the management of financial institution 会秘书。徐先生从事金融行业三十余年，证and investment. Mr. Xu holds a doctorate degree in Management Science and Engineering 券行业二十余年，熟知中国境内外金融市场from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. 和产品，拥有丰富的金融机构管理和投资经验。徐先生拥有华中科技大学管理科学与工程博士学位。* For identification purpose onlyAnnual Report 2021 年报 13智 能 教 育 与 学 习Smart Learning & Immersive Technology乐于探索Connecting Exploration with FunIDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司ManagementDiscussion andAnalysis管理层讨论及分析16 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析BUSINESS REVIEW 业务回顾Due to resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2021 and the impact of the trade war 于二零二一年，由于COVID-19疫情反复，on the global supply chain of chips, the consumer electronic industry has suffered serious 加之贸易战对全球芯片供应链带来的影响，disruption in development. IDT International Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries 严重冲击了消费电子行业的发展。万威国际(collectively, the “Group” or “we” or “us”) continued to devote efforts in reshaping 有限公司（“本公司”）及其附属公司（统称“本product development direction, customer base and commercial terms, and in streamlining 集团”或“我们”）继续致力于重塑产品发展方its organisational structure, operation processes and administrative costs. For the year 向、客户群及商业条款，并精简组织架构、ended 31 December 2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year”), the Group recorded sales revenue 营运流程及行政成本。截至二零二一年十二of approximately HK$17.1 million (for the year ended 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”): 月三十一日止年度（“二零二一年年度”或“本HK$55.4 million) and gross profit of approximately HK$1.8 million (FY2020: HK$5.6 年度”），本集团实现销售收入约港币17.1百million). 万元（截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度（“二零二零年年度”）：港币55.4百万元），及毛利约港币1.8百万元（二零二零年年度：港币5.6百万元）。Meanwhile, management implemented various measures to improve lean manufacturing, 同时，管理层实施了加强精益制造、精简人streamline manpower and achieve business model reform. Due to the sudden resurgence 力和实施商业模式变革的多项措施。由于中of the pandemic in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC” or “China”), the PRC 华人民共和国（“中国”）国内疫情突然复发，government has called for private enterprises to minimise or suspend operations, and 中国政府要求非民生企业尽量减少或暂停办imposed lockdowns in various areas. In response to the government’s appeal and to 公，众多区域封闭，人员禁行，本集团响应minimise incurring non-operating costs, the Group decided to temporarily discontinue 政府号召，同时减少非营业成本消耗，于二production at our Shenzhen factory in March 2022. 零二二年三月，决定深圳工厂暂时停产。The Group closely monitors cash flow through reshaping our customer base and 本集团透过重整客户群以及与业务合作伙伴renegotiating commercial terms with our business partners. As at 31 December 2021, 重新商议商业条款，密切监控现金流量。于trade receivables decreased by approximately 12.5% to approximately HK$0.7 million 二零二一年十二月三十一日，应收账款金额(2020: approximately HK$0.8 million). In order to optimise inventory management, 减少约12.5%至约港币0.7百万元（二零二零we reduced the number of stock keeping units (“SKU”), such that inventories was 年：约港币0.8百万元）。为了更有效的存货管maintained at a low level of approximately HK$5.2 million as at 31 December 2021 (2020: 理，我们缩减库存量单位（“SKU”）数量，使于approximately HK$7.1 million). 二零二一年十二月三十一日存货维持于约港币5.2百万元（二零二零年：约港币7.1百万元）的低水平。VALUE MANUFACTURING SERVICES (“VMS”) 价值制造服务（“VMS”）The global electronics industry remained sluggish in FY2021 due to the global coronavirus 于二零二一年年度，受全球新冠肺炎疫情的pandemic, which caused logistics disruptions and difficulties in work resumption of supply 影响，物流运输受阻，供应链上游企业复工chain upstream enterprises. For FY2021, the VMS business recorded sales revenue of 困难，导致全球电子产品行业持续低迷。二approximately HK$4.6 million (FY2020: approximately HK$24.7 million), representing 零二一年年度，VMS业务的销售收入约为港币approximately 26.9% of the Group’s total revenue. 4.6百万元（二零二零年年度：约港币24.7百万元），占本集团总收入的约26.9%。Annual Report 2021 年报 17IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析Despite the lower sales revenue, the research and development team of VMS continued 尽管销售收入较低，但为了保持技术领先性to maintain close relationships with global innovative technology partners to explore 和市场竞争力，VMS研发团队不断和全球新技new partnership opportunities, such as the joint development of the E-ink watch, pulse 术创新合作伙伴保持紧密联系，寻求新的合wave transit time (PWTT) smart blood pressure measurement and dynamic heart 作机会，如共同开发E-ink墨水屏手表、脉搏rate measurement solutions, in order to maintain our technological edge and market 波传导时间(PWTT)智能血压测量及心率动态competitiveness. 测量解决方案。Management decided to renegotiate more favourable commercial terms with most of our 管理层决定与大多数VMS客户重新协商达成更VMS customers, with an aim to improve gross margins and speed up the recovery of trade 优惠的商业条款，以提高毛利率为目标，及receivables, which will help build a robust foundation for future business development. 加快回收应收账款。这有助于为未来的业务发展奠定更健康的基础。OREGON SCIENTIFIC (“OS”) OREGON SCIENTIFIC（“OS”）For FY2021, the OS business recorded total sales revenue of approximately HK$12.5 于二零二一年年度，OS业务的销售收入总million (FY2020: approximately HK$30.7 million), decreasing by approximately 59.3% over 计约为港币12.5百万元（二零二零年年度：约FY2020, representing approximately 73.1% of the Group’s total revenue. The decrease in 港币30.7百万元），较二零二零年年度减少约revenue was mainly due to the impact of the global coronavirus pandemic. 59.3%，占本集团总收入的约73.1%，收入减少主要因受到全球新冠肺炎疫情的影响。Smart Learning and Immersive Technology (“SLIT”) and health care will be a focus 智能教育与学习（“SLIT”）和医疗保健领域将category. The Group has commenced a partnership with a leading hospital and sleep 是我们重点关注的领域，本集团已着手与中science research institute in Jiangsu, China, to develop projects on sleep improvement and 国江苏省一家领先医院及睡眠科学研究所开health tracking, with strong focus on the demand for health care assistance products from 展睡眠改善和健康监测项目，重点关注中老middle-aged and elderly consumer groups, which will be significant for the Sport, Fitness 年消费群体对健康辅助产品的需求，这些项and Health (“SFH”) category. With online learning gradually becoming a major method for 目将在运动、健体及健康（“SFH”）领域发挥重education in the pandemic, opportunities in the SLIT market have increased. The Group 要作用。线上教学逐步成为疫情期间的主要is building a strategic partnership with China’s Intellectual Property Publishing House to 学习方式，SLIT的市场机会更多，本集团正在commence development on new products, in order to satisfy the massive demand for 与中国知识产权出版社建立战略合作伙伴关smart learning products from consumers in China. 系，开始开发新产品，以满足中国消费者对智能学习产品的巨大需求。WORKING CAPITAL 营运资金The inventory balance as at 31 December 2021 was approximately HK$5.2 million, 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，存货结余约decreased by approximately 26.8% compared to approximately HK$7.1 million as at 31 为港币5.2百万元，较于二零二零年十二月December 2020. The inventory turnover days increased to 147 days (FY2020: 87 days). 三十一日之约港币7.1百万元下降约26.8%。存Trade debtor balances as at 31 December 2021 was approximately HK$0.7 million, 货周转日数增加至147日（二零二零年年度：decreased by approximately 12.5% compared to approximately HK$0.8 million shown as 87日）。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，应at 31 December 2020. Trade debtor’s turnover days were decreased to 16 days (FY2020: 收账款结余约为港币0.7百万元，较二零二零97 days). 年十二月三十一日之约港币0.8百万元下降约12.5%。应收账款周转日数减少至16日（二零二零年年度：97日）。18 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析The finance lease receivables relate to the subletting of factory and office space to 融资租赁应收款项与将工厂及办公室空间转prospective independent third party tenants to generate revenue of the Group. It is a 租予潜在独立第三方租户以为本集团产生收reclassification of the “rights of use of assets” previously recognized by the Group as 益有关。此乃本集团先前因就该等物业订立a result of entering into the lease agreements for these properties and the expected 租赁协议而对本集团先前确认的“使用权资discounted income from the sub-leases for the remaining term of the sub-leases. 产”以及就该分租余下期间的分租预期贴现收入的重新分类。Such subleases maximise the Company’s resources from the operation perspective, 就运营方面而言，该等分租充分利用本公司increase the Company’s cash inflow and hence are in the interest of the Company and its 资源，增加本公司现金流入量，因此符合本shareholders. 公司及其股东利益。CAPITAL STRUCTURE 资本架构The net liabilities value of the Group as at 31 December 2021 stood at approximately 本集团于二零二一年十二月三十一日的负债HK$305.6 million (FY2020: approximately HK$221.3 million), approximately 38.1% higher 净值维持于约港币305.6百万元（二零二零年than that of 2020. As at 31 December 2021, there was 2,599,993,088 issued and fully paid 年度：约港币221.3百万元），较二零二零年shares with HK$0.1 each. The net liabilities value per share as at 31 December 2021 was 高出约38.1%。于二零二一年十二月三十一approximately -11.8HK cents (FY2020: approximately -8.5HK cents). 日，本集团拥有2,599,993,088股每股面值港币0.1元的已发行及缴足股份。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，每股股份之负债净值约为港币-11.8仙（二零二零年年度：约为港币-8.5仙）。GEARING RATIO 资产负债比率As at 31 December 2021, the Group’s total assets amounted to approximately HK$81.3 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团的总million. Total liabilities amounted to approximately HK$386.9 million, the Group expresses 资产约为港币81.3百万元，总负债约为港币its gearing ratio as a percentage of borrowings over total assets which was approximately 386.9百万元。本集团之资产负债比率（即借款321.9% (2020: approximately 181.4%). The increase in the loan from a shareholder for 占总资产之百分比）为约321.9%（二零二零年：financial support of the Company resulted in the increase in the gearing ratio. 约181.4%）。来自一名股东为本公司提供财务支持的贷款增加导致资产负债比率增加。LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT 流动资金及财务管理As at 31 December 2021, bank balances and cash of the Group, including restricted bank 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团之银balances, amounted to approximately HK$52.9 million (2020: approximately HK$13.1 行结余及现金（包括受限制银行结余）约为港million). During the Year, the Group generated its funds mainly from operating or financing 币52.9百万元（二零二零年：约港币13.1百万activities. The net cash position (bank balances and cash) as at 31 December 2021 元）。于本年度，本集团之资金主要来源于经amounted to approximately HK$52.9 million (2020: approximately HK$13.1 million). 营或融资活动。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，净现金状况（银行结余及现金）约为港币52.9百万元（二零二零年：约港币13.1百万元）。Annual Report 2021 年报 19IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析CHARGES ON GROUP ASSETS 本集团资产抵押At 31 December 2021, there were no finance charges on the Group’s assets. 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团概无任何用作财务抵押之资产。CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 资本开支There was no capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment for FY2021 (FY2020: 于二零二一年年度，并无物业、机器及设备approximately HK$0.3 million). 之资本开支（二零二零年年度：约港币0.3百万元）。There were no material acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries and associated companies 于二零二一年年度，本集团并无进行有关附in the course of FY2021. 属公司及联营公司之重大收购或出售。DIVIDEND 股息The Directors of the Company do not recommend any dividend for FY2021 (FY2020: Nil). 本公司董事不建议派付二零二一年年度之任何股息（二零二零年年度：无）。CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS 或然负债╱诉讼(a) In December 2020, there was a litigation initiated by a supplier of the Group in (a) 于二零二零年十二月，本集团于香港的Hong Kong claiming the allegedly due and unpaid balance of purchase orders against 一名供应商鉴于本集团附属公司单方面a subsidiary of the Group in Hong Kong in view of unilateral cancellation of purchase 取消金额约为334,000美元（相当于约港orders by the subsidiary of the Group for a sum of approximately US$334,000 币2.6百万元）的采购订单而提起诉讼，(equivalent to approximately HK$2.6 million). The management of the Group, 就其声称的本集团于香港的一间附属公having obtained the legal advice from an independent legal counsel, estimated that 司采购订单之到期未付结余提出申索。the Group will likely be liable to pay for the total and, therefore, the Group had 本集团管理层经获取独立法律顾问之法recognised the provision for losses on litigations of approximately HK$2.3 million 律意见后，估计本集团将有可能倾向于in profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2020. During the year ended 31 支付总额，因此本集团于截至二零二零December 2021, the litigation is still in process. 年十二月三十一日止年度之损益内确认诉讼亏损拨备约港币2.3百万元。截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度，该诉讼仍在受理中。20 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析Subsequently, on 12 April 2022, the Group has filed a Consent Summons for 其后，于二零二二年四月十二日，本集settlement to the District Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 团已向香港特别行政区区域法院提交和According to the Consent Summons, the settlement sum was reduced to 解同意传讯令状。根据同意传讯令状，approximately US$130,000 (equivalent to approximately HK$1.0 million) and was 和解金额减至约130,000美元（相当于约agreed to be settled by instalments on without admission of liability basis. On 11 港币1.0百万元）并同意在不承认责任之May 2022, the Consent Summons was approved. As a result, a reversal of provision 基础上分期付款结清。于二零二二年for losses on litigations of approximately HK$1.3 million had been recognised in 五月十一日，同意传讯令状获批准。因“Provision for losses on litigations, net” in “Other losses, net” in the consolidated 此，诉讼亏损拨备拨回约港币1.3百万statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 元已于截至二零二一年十二月三十一日December 2021. 止年度的综合损益及其他全面收益表内“其他亏损，净额”中的“诉讼亏损拨备净额”确认。(b) In 2020, the Group received a notice from a District Court in the PRC (the “PRC (b) 于二零二零年，本集团接获中国地方法Court”) stating that a supplier of the Group in the PRC has initiated legal action 院（“中国法院”）的通知，称本集团于中against certain subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by claiming the allegedly 国的一名供应商已针对本集团的若干中due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees from the Group. In respect of the 国附属公司提起法律诉讼，就其声称的aforesaid due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees approximately HK$5.5 应收本集团分包费之到期未付结余提出million had been recognised in “Trade payables” at 31 December 2021 and 2020. 申索。上述到期未付分包费结余约为港币5.5百万元，已于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日于“应付账款”内确认。According to judgements dated 16 August 2021 issued by the PRC Court, 根据中国法院日期为二零二一年八月the Group was liable to make payment of approximately RMB4.9 million and 十六日之判决，本集团须分别支付约人approximately RMB0.1 million (equivalent to approximately HK$6.0 million and 民币4.9百万元及约人民币0.1百万元（相approximately HK$0.1 million) as settlement of subcontracting fees and material 当于约港币6.0百万元及约港币0.1百万costs, respectively. The Group has then filed an appeal for such judgements to the 元）以结算分包费及材料成本。本集团PRC Court. 已就该等判决向中国法院提出上诉。Based on the legal advice obtained from an independent legal counsel, the 基于一名独立法律顾问的法律建议，本management of the Group considered no further provision for litigation was 集团管理层认为，于截至二零二一年required to be made for the year ended 31 December 2021. Subsequent to the 十二月三十一日止年度内无须为有关诉financial year end date of 31 December 2021 and up to the date of approving these 讼进一步计提拨备。于财政年结日二零consolidated financial statements, the litigation is still in process. 二一年十二月三十一日后及直至批准该等综合财务报表日期，诉讼仍在受理中。Annual Report 2021 年报 21IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析(c) During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Group received several notices (c) 于截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年from the PRC Court stating that a group of ten individual former employees and 度，本集团接获中国法院的若干通知，three individual former employees of the Group in the PRC have initiated legal 称由本集团中国的十名个别前任雇员及action against subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by claiming compensation of the 三名个别前任雇员组成的小组已对本集dismissal of labour contract in view of breach of terms in employment agreement 团于中国的附属公司提起诉讼，要求就with the Group. Pursuant to the judgements made by the court of the PRC, the 本集团违反雇佣协议中的条款而解除劳Group was ordered to make payment amounting to approximately HK$2.8 million 动合同获得赔偿。根据中国法院的判which had been recognised in “Provision for losses on litigations, net” in “Other 决，本集团被责令立即支付约港币2.8百losses, net” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 万元，该款项已于截至二零二一年十二income for the year ended 31 December 2021. 月三十一日止年度的综合损益及其他全面收益表内“其他亏损，净额”中的“诉讼亏损拨备净额”确认。For the case against the group of ten individuals former employees, which payment 就十名前任雇员的案件而言，向彼等支to them was approximately RMB1.7 million (equivalent to approximately HK$2.0 付的款项约为人民币1.7百万元（相当于million); the Group has been trying to reach a settlement agreement with them 约港币2.0百万元）；在中国法院作出判subsequent to the judgement issued by the PRC Court. As for the remaining cases 决后，本集团一直试图与彼等达成和解of three individuals former employees, which the total payments to them were 协议。至于余下的三名前任雇员案件，approximately RMB0.7 million (equivalent to approximately HK$0.8 million), the 向彼等支付的款项总额约为人民币0.7百Group has filed for appeals for such judgements to the PRC Court. 万元（相当于约港币0.8百万元），本集团已就该等判决向中国法院提出上诉。Subsequent to the year end date of 31 December 2021 and up to the date of 于年结日二零二一年十二月三十一日后approving these consolidated financial statements, the Group has yet to reach a 及直至批准该等综合财务报表日期，本settlement agreement with the group of ten former employees and the litigations 集团尚未与十名前任雇员达成和解协concerning the three individuals former employees are still in process. 议，有关三名个别前任雇员的诉讼仍在受理中。Other than the disclosure of above and elsewhere in the consolidated financial 除上述及其他于综合财务报表中的披露statements, at the end of the reporting period, the Group was not involved in any 外，于报告期末，本集团未牵涉任何其other material litigation or arbitration. As far as the management of the Group was 他重大诉讼或仲裁。据本集团管理层所aware, the Group had no other material litigation or claim which was pending or 知，本集团并无其他未决或威胁本集团threatened against the Group. At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Group was the 的重大诉讼或申索。于二零二一年及二defendant of certain non-material litigations, and also a party to certain litigations 零二零年十二月三十一日，本集团为arising from the ordinary course of business of the Group. The likely outcome of 若干非重大诉讼的被告，亦于本集团的these contingent liabilities, litigations or other legal proceedings cannot be ascertained 日常业务过程中牵涉若干诉讼。目前尚with reasonable certainty at present, but the management of the Group believes 无法确定该等或有负债、诉讼或其他法that any possible legal liability which may be incurred from the aforesaid cases will 律程序的可能结果，但本集团管理层认not have any material impact on the financial position or results of the Group. 为，上述案件可能引起的任何可能法律责任将不会对本集团的财务状况或业绩产生任何重大影响。22 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析HUMAN RESOURCES AND REMUNERATION POLICY 人力资源及薪酬政策As at 31 December 2021, the Group had 353 employees. The Group fully recognises the 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团聘有importance of its employees who contribute significantly to its success and continues to 353名雇员。本集团深明雇员对本集团取得今maintain and upgrade the capabilities of its workforce by providing them with adequate 日成就实在功不可没，并为员工提供充足及and regular training. 定期培训，藉以保持及不断提升员工之工作表现。The Group’s remuneration policy is to provide compensation packages at market rates 本集团之薪酬政策旨在提供符合市场水平的which reward individual’s performance and attract, retain and motivate high quality 薪津组合，以回报雇员之个人表现，并且吸employees. The compensation packages offered by the Group are comparable with 引、挽留并激励能干员工。本集团之薪津other organisations of similar size and business nature and are reviewed annually. The 组合可与其他规模和业务性质相若之机构提components of employee’s remuneration package consist of base salary, double pay, 供薪津组合媲美，而本集团亦会每年对此进fringe benefits including pension scheme, medical insurance, life and personal accident 行检讨。雇员之薪津组合包括基本薪金、双insurance, employee compensation and business travel insurance as well as incentives like 粮、额外福利（包括退休保障计划、医疗保discretionary cash bonus. 险、人寿及个人意外保险、雇员补偿及公干保险），以及酌情现金花红等奖励。In Xixiang, Shenzhen, China where the Xixiang facilities are located, staff welfare rates 于西乡设施之所在地，中国深圳西乡，员工are set with reference to the prevailing labour laws in China. Accommodation and leisure 福利水平乃参考中国现行之劳动法而制定。facilities are also provided to local staff at Xixiang facilities. 驻西乡设施之本地员工均获提供住宿及消闲设施。The Group’s remuneration philosophy for senior executives is based upon creating a 本集团厘定高级行政人员薪酬之理念为使其strong link between performance and reward in accordance with the following principles: 表现与回报紧密挂钩，当中所根据之原则如下：1. Fixed salaries and benefits are set at median-market level against comparable 1. 本集团先选出一系列规模及业务性质相groups of companies selected on the basis of similar size and business nature and 若之公司作比较指标，使固定薪金及福benchmarked with the prevailing market conditions; and 利定于市场水平的中位数，并以现行市况作基准；及2. Performance-related bonus is linked to the achievement of pre-defined performance 2. 绩效花红与能否达到既定表现目标（包targets including financial targets, performance index and pre-agreed management 括财务目标、表现指数及预先协议之管objectives. 理目标）挂钩。Annual Report 2021 年报 23IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Management Discussion and Analysis管理层讨论及分析The emolument of the Directors is recommended by the remuneration committee with 董事酬金由薪酬委员会参考业务种类或规模reference to companies of comparable business type or scale, and the nature and quantity 相若之公司，以及董事会与董事委员会（“董of work at both Board and Board committee (“Board Committee”) levels (including 事委员会”）之工作性质和工作量（包括会议次frequency of meetings and nature of agenda items) in order to compensate Directors 数及议题性质）后提出建议，务求董事可就所reasonably for their time and efforts spent. The Directors’ emolument is approved by the 付出之时间及贡献得到合理报酬。董事酬金Board pursuant to the mandate granted by the shareholders at annual general meetings. 由董事会根据股东于股东周年大会上授予之Remuneration are paid to a Director for appointment as a member of a particular 授权而批准。如董事获委任为个别委员会之committee. Non-Executive Directors receive no base pay, benefits, bonus or pension 成员，其将获发袍金。除出任本公司董事而except reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the 获得之可报销开支外，非执行董事并不获发Company. No individual Director is allowed to participate in the procedures for deciding 基本薪金、福利、花红或退休保障。各董事his/her individual remuneration package. Full details of the remuneration of and fees paid to 不得参与厘定本身薪酬福利之程序。本年度the Directors for the Year are set out in note 10 of the consolidated financial statements 支付予董事之薪酬及袍金的详情载于本年报contained in this annual report. 综合财务报表附注10。24 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书The Group is committed to achieving a up to stipulated standard of corporate governance 为保障全体股东权益及提升企业价值和问责to safeguard the interests of all shareholders and to enhance corporate value and 性，本集团一向承诺恪守奉行乎合规定水accountability. Throughout the year ended 31 December 2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year”), 平之企业管治。于截至二零二一年十二月the Company has applied the principles and complied with all code provisions and where 三十一日止年度（“二零二一年年度”或“本年applicable, the recommended best practices prescribed in the Corporate Governance 度”），本公司已应用并遵守香港联合交易所Code (the “CG Code”) in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities (the 有限公司（“联交所”）证券上市规则（“上市规“Listing Rules”) on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock Exchange”), save 则”）附录十四所载之企业管治守则（“企业管for the deviation from the Code Provision C.2.1, C.1.6 and C.1.8. This report describes its 治守则”）的所有原则及守则条文（惟偏离守则corporate governance practices, explains the applications of the principles of the CG Code 条文第C.2.1条、第C.1.6条及第C.1.8条除外），and deviations during FY2021. 以及建议最佳常规（如适用）。本报告书详述本集团于二零二一年年度之企业管治常规，并阐释企业管治守则之原则应用及偏离行为。BOARD OF DIRECTORS 董事会Board 董事会During FY2021, the Board comprised five Directors of whom one is Executive Director 于二零二一年年度，董事会由五名董事组and one is Non-Executive Director and three are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 成，其中一名为执行董事、一名为非执行董事及三名为独立非执行董事。Brief biographical details of the Directors appear in the Directors and Senior Management 董事之履历简表载列于本年报之本集团董事of the Group section of this annual report. An updated list of Directors of the Company 及高级管理层部分。本公司董事最新的名单and their respective roles and functions are posted on the Stock Exchange’s website and 及各董事之职责及职能载于联交所网站及本the Company’s website. 公司网站。Appointment, Re-election and Retirement of Directors 董事之委任、重选及告退The nomination and corporate governance committee of the Board (“NCGC”) reviews 董事会提名及企业管治委员会（“提名及企业the profiles of the candidates and makes recommendations to the Board on the 管治委员会”）负责考虑审阅候选人之履历及appointment, re-election and retirement of Directors. 就董事委任、重选及退任之事宜向董事会作出建议。The Company recognises the importance of having the appropriate board composition. In 本公司深明具备洽当的董事会组合之重要。deciding the board composition, the attributes, skills and expertise among the Directors 在考虑董事会组合的事宜上，就本集团之业are considered appropriate to effectively lead and control the Group, taking into account 务范畴及性质而言，董事所具备之特质、技the scope and nature of its operations. The Directors have a mix of core competencies 能及专业知识足以令彼等能有效地引领及监in areas such as accounting and finance, business and management, industry knowledge 控本集团。董事具有各方面如会计及财务、and marketing strategies. The size of the Board is conducive to effective discussion and 商业及管理、业界知识及市场策略等专才。decision-making and has an appropriate balance of independent Directors to exercise 董事会之规模能促使有效之讨论及决策；同independent judgment. 时，董事会亦包含独立董事作为恰当的平衡，以使其能作出独立判断。Annual Report 2021 年报 25IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书In accordance with the Company’s Bye-Laws, at each annual general meeting (the “AGM”), 根据本公司章程细则，于每届股东周年大会one-third of the Directors shall retire from office. The Directors to retire in every year shall （“股东周年大会”）上，三分之一董事必须退be those who have been longest in office since their last election or re-election. Further, 任。每年之退任董事须为彼等自上次获选或any Director appointed by the Board as an additional Board member or fill in a casual 重选以来任期为最长者。再者，获董事会委vacancy shall hold office until the following AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election at 任作为新增董事会成员或填补董事空缺之董the AGM immediately following their appointments. The new Directors shall not be taken 事将一直留任，直至本公司下届股东周年大into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that 会为止，并须于紧随彼等获委任后之股东周AGM. Election and re-election of Directors will be done by separate resolution. 年大会上膺选连任。于厘定股东周年大会上须轮值告退之董事人数时，毋须计及该新任董事。选举及重选董事将以独立决议案来完成。The names and biographical details of the Directors who will offer themselves for 将于应届股东周年大会上膺选连任董事之姓re-election at the forthcoming AGM will be set out in the circular accompanying the notice 名及履历将载于随附股东周年大会通告之通of AGM. 函内。BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY 董事会成员多元化政策The Board adopted a Board diversity policy setting out the approach to achieve diversity 董事会已采纳董事会成员多元化政策，其中on the Board. The Company recognises and embraces the benefits of having a diverse 载有实现董事会成员多元化之方式。本公司Board to enhance the quality of its performance. Board diversity will be considered by the 明白并深信拥有多元化董事会成员能提高董Company from a number of aspects, including but not limited to cultural and educational 事会表现质素之裨益。本公司会从多个方面background, experience, skills, knowledge, length of service, age and gender. The Board 衡量董事会之多元化，包括但不限于文化及composition is reviewed, considered and discussed by the NCGC on an annual basis and it 教育背景、经验、专长、知识、服务年期、will make recommendations to the Board after the review. The Company’s business needs 年龄及性别。董事会之组成每年由提名及企will also be taken into account in determining the optimum composition of the Board. In 业管治委员会作出检讨、考虑及商讨，其于reviewing and assessing the composition of the Board as well as selecting candidate(s), 检讨后会向董事会作出建议。本公司之业务the NCGC will consider all diversity elements according to the policy and also devised 需要亦会被考虑在内，以厘定董事会之最佳guidelines for ideal board size, optimum number of executive and non-executive directors 组合。在考虑及评估董事会组合及挑选候任and board membership criteria. The policy and those guidelines shall be reviewed and 董事时，提名及企业管治委员会将根据该政revised periodically to meet business needs of the Group. 策考虑所有多元化因素，以及就董事会之适当成员数目、适当之执行董事及非执行董事人数，以及担任董事会成员之先决条件制定指引，该政策及该等指引将会定期予以检讨及修订以合乎本集团的业务需要。26 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书Induction and Continuous Professional Development 入职及持续专业发展Newly appointed Directors of the Company will receive induction and reference materials 本公司新委任董事将获发指引及参考资料，to enable him/her to familiarise himself/herself with the Group’s history, mission, business 以便其熟识本集团历史、使命、业务运作、operations and board and company policies. Each Director is briefed and updated from 董事会及公司政策等。各董事不时获简要提time to time to ensure that he/she has a proper understanding of the operations and 示最新资料，确保其妥为了解本集团运作及business of the Group and that he/she is fully aware of his/her responsibilities under Statutory 业务，并知悉其根据法定及普通法、上市规and common law, the Listing Rules, applicable legal and other regulatory requirements and 则、适用法例及其他监管规定与本公司管治the governance policies of the Company and latest Listing Rules and legislation. 政策须承担之各项责任、最新上市规则及法例。Directors are encouraged to participate in continuous professional development so as to 本集团鼓励董事参与持续专业发展，以更新refresh their knowledge and skills for discharging their duties and responsibilities. During 彼等之知识及技能，以便履行其职责。于二FY2021, relevant reading materials including regulatory update, seminar handouts and latest 零二一年年度，董事已获提供相关阅读材料regulatory case selection etc. have been provided to the Directors for their reference and （包括监管更新资料、研讨会材料及最新监管studying. 案例选等），以供彼等参考及学习。A summary of training activities taken by the Directors during FY2021 is set out as follows: 以下列表概述于二零二一年年度董事所接受之培训活动：Training activities including in-houseactivities/briefings, seminars/talks heldby professional organisations and/orreading materials on relevant topics培训活动（包括公司内部活动╱会议、专业组织举办之研讨会╱Directors 董事 讲座及╱或阅读相关课题之材料）Executive Director: 执行董事：Zhu Yongning 朱永宁 √Non-Executive Director: 非执行董事：Cui Xiao 崔啸 √Independent Non-Executive Directors: 独立非执行董事：Zhou Meilin 周美林 √Zhou Rui 周锐 √Xu Jinwen 徐锦文 √Annual Report 2021 年报 27IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 主席及首席执行官According to the Code Provision C.2.1, the roles of the chairman and the Chief Executive 根据守则条文第C.2.1条，主席与首席执行官Officer (the “CEO”) should be separate and performed by different individuals to ensure a （“首席执行官”）的角色应有区分，并由不同人balance of power and authority so that power is not concentrated in any one individual. 士担任，以确保权力和授权分布均衡，不致权力仅集中于一位人士。After the retirement of Mr. Xu Chiming, the then chairman, on 26 June 2019, Mr. Zhu 在徐志明先生于二零一九年六月二十六日退Yongning, the CEO of the Company, took up the responsibilities of both the chairman and 任后，本公司首席执行官朱永宁先生兼任主席CEO of the Company. The Board has been trying to recruit a suitable candidate such that 及本公司首席执行官职务。董事会不断努力the two roles can be separated since then. However, the Board, after Mr. Zhu has assumed 招聘适合人选，以便此后将两个角色加以区the two roles, consider that vesting two roles in the same person could provide the Group 分。然而，于朱先生担任该等两个角色后，with strong and consistent leadership in the development and execution of the Group’s 董事会认为赋予同一人士以两个角色可就本business strategies and is beneficial to the Group. The Directors will continue to review 集团业务策略的发展及执行为本集团提供有the effectiveness of the current structure and assess whether separation of the roles of the 力且一致的领导，并对本集团有益。董事将chairman and the CEO is necessary. 继续检讨现时架构的有效性，及评估主席与首席执行官的角色应否区分的必要性。Responsibilities of the Board and delegations to management 董事会职责及管理层指派The Board is responsible to the shareholders for leadership and control of the Company 董事会就领导及监控本公司向股东负责，并and is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company and its businesses 且透过带领及监管本公司之事务，共同负责by directing and supervising the Company’s affairs. 促进本公司及其业务之成功。The Board focuses on overall strategies and policies with particular attention paid to the 董事会专注于整体策略及政策，尤其关注本growth and financial performance of the Group. The principal functions of the Board are 集团之增长及财务表现。董事会之主要功能to: 如下：• establish the strategic direction and development of the Group; • 制订本集团之策略性方向及发展；• determine the broad policies, strategic plans and performance objectives of the • 决定本集团主要政策、策略计划及绩效Group; 目标；• monitor management performance; • 监察管理层之表现；• approve financial plans and annual budgets, major funding proposals, key funding and • 批准财政计划及年度预算、重大拨款建investment proposals; 议、主要融资及投资建议；• oversee the processes for evaluating the adequacy of internal controls, risk • 监察内部监控是否足够的评估过程、风management, financial reporting and compliance; 险管理、财务汇报及守规之程序；• approve the nominations of Directors and appointment of key personnel; and • 批准提名董事及委任主要人员；及• assume responsibility for corporate governance. • 就企业管治承担责任。28 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书The Board delegates daily operations of the Group to Executive Directors and senior 董事会委派执行董事及高级行政人员处理日executives, while reserving certain key matters for its approval. Decisions of the Board are 常营运事宜，惟保留批准若干重要事项之权communicated to the management through Executive Directors who have attended at 利。董事会之决定透过出席董事会会议之执Board meetings and circulation of minutes of Board meetings to the management. 行董事，及给予管理层传阅董事会会议之会议记录而下达至管理层。The Board has adopted a set of guidelines to clearly divide the responsibilities of the 董事会对须获其批准之事宜采纳一系列指Board and the management. Matters reserved for decision and consideration of the Board 引，以明确界定董事会及管理层之职责。须include, among others, all matters of strategic importance, corporate governance practices, 获董事会决定及考虑之事宜其中包括所有重legal and regulatory compliance, internal control and risk management, corporate strategy, 大策略性事宜、企业管治常规、法例及规管operating and capital budgets, statutory financial reports, changes in Board members, 的遵守、内部监控及风险管理、企业策略、major transactions and investment commitments and remuneration policy of Directors and 营运及资金预算、法定财务报告、董事会成senior management, financial authorisation and approval limits for operating and capital 员变动、主要交易及投资承诺以及董事及高expenditure, the procurement of goods and services, and the acquisition and disposal of 级管理人员之薪酬政策，营运及资本开支、investments. 货物与服务之采用及投资项目之收购与出售之财务授权与批准限额。INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 独立非执行董事Coming from diverse business and professional backgrounds, the Independent Non- 为了提高本公司及股东之最佳利益，本公司Executive Directors of the Company have shared their valuable experience with the Board 来自不同业务及专业背景的独立非执行董事in the interests of promoting the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The 均向董事会分享其宝贵经验。本公司独立非Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company have made significant contribution 执行董事以其专业及技能向董事委员会作出of their skills and expertise to the Board Committees. All Independent Non-Executive 重要的贡献。所有独立非执行董事以三年固Directors are appointed for a fixed term of three years and are subject to retirement by 定任期委任，并须根据本公司章程细则于本rotation and re-election by shareholders at the AGM of the Company in accordance with 公司股东周年大会上轮值告退并由股东重选the Company’s Bye-Laws. 连任。All Independent Non-Executive Directors are expressly identified in all corporate 所有独立非执行董事均在披露本公司董事姓communications that disclose the names of the Directors of the Company. The functions 名之所有企业通讯中明确识别。独立非执行of Independent Non-Executive Directors include, but not limited to: 董事之职能包括，但不限于：• participating in Board meetings to bring in independent judgment to bear on • 参加董事会会议，就公司策略、公司绩issues of corporate strategy, corporate performance, accountability, resources, key 效、问责性、资源、委任要员及操守准appointments and standard of conducts; 则作出独立判断；• taking the lead where potential conflicts of interests arise; • 在出现潜在利益冲突时引领董事会；• serving on Board Committees, if invited; and • 应邀出任董事会属下委员会职务（如获邀请）；及• scrutinising the Group’s performance in achieving agreed corporate goals and • 详查本集团绩效是否达到既定的企业目objectives, and monitoring the reporting of performance. 标和目的，并监察本公司汇报表情况。Annual Report 2021 年报 29IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书During FY2021, the Company has complied with Rules 3.10(1) and 3.10(2) of the Listing 于二零二一年年度，本公司遵守上市规则Rules regarding the appointment of at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors 第3.10(1)及3.10(2)条有关委任最少三名独立非including at least one Independent Non-Executive Director with appropriate professional 执行董事，其中包括最少一名独立非执行董qualifications or accounting or relating financial management expertise. In assessing the 事必须具有恰宜之专业资格或会计或有关财independence of the Directors, the Board has examined the different relationships 务管理专业知识之规定。于评估董事之独立identified under the Listing Rules that might impair the Directors’ independence and 性时，董事会已检查订明于上市规则内有可objectivity. The Board considers that all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors 能损害董事独立性及客观性不同的关系。董are independent and are satisfied with the Directors’ ability to act with independent 事会认为所有独立非执行董事皆为独立并满judgment. Furthermore, each of the Independent Non-Executive Directors has provided 意彼等之能力可作出独立之判断。再者，每to the Company an annual confirmation of independence required by Rule 3.13 of the 位独立非执行董事均按上市规则第3.13条之规Listing Rules. The Company considers all its Independent Non-Executive Directors to be 定向本公司提供年度独立确认书。本公司视independent. Each Director is subject to retirement by rotation at least once every three 所有独立非执行董事皆具独立性。每位董事years. Any further re-appointment of an Independent Non-Executive Director, who has 皆需最少每三年轮值告退。如再委任任何已served the Board for more than nine years, will be subject to separate resolution to be 服务董事会逾九年之独立非执行董事，将须approved by the shareholders of the Company. 根据本公司股东以独立议案予以批准。The Company has also complied with Rule 3.10A of the Listing Rules that the Independent 本公司亦遵守上市规则第3.10A条有关董事会Non-Executive Directors are representing at least one-third of the Board. 须有至少三分之一成员为独立非执行董事之规定。RELATIONSHIP 关系There is no financial, business, family and other material relationship among other members 董事会其他成员之间概无任何财务、业务、of the Board. 家族及其他重要关系。There has been an effective and balanced Board collectively responsible for the Company’s 董事会维持高效率及平衡之架构，并集体负activities and affairs. The Board members are free to discuss issues properly put to the 责本公司业务及事务。董事会成员可自由讨Board meetings and express their views and concerns. No individual or small group can 论于董事会会议上适当提出之事宜，并表达dominate the Board’s decision-making process. 其意见及关注。概无个别人士或小组可主导董事会之决策过程。If a substantial shareholder or a Director has a conflict of interest in a matter to be 倘董事会认为主要股东或董事在董事会将予considered by the Board which the Board has determined to be material, the matter will 考虑的事项中存有董事会认为属重大的利益be dealt with by a physical Board meeting rather than a written resolution of the Board. 冲突，该事项将以举行一次董事会会议而非The Board will take into account the exceptions to the general voting prohibition, as set 以董事会书面决议进行议决。董事会在考虑out in the Listing Rules when considering whether a director shall vote on any board 该董事应否放弃于董事会上表决有关批准其resolution approving any matters in which he has material interests or shall he be counted 拥用重大利益等事宜时或应否计入出席会议in the quorum present at the meeting. 之法定人数内时，将会考虑上市规则所载一般禁止表决例外情况。30 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书MEETINGS 会议The Board meets regularly at least four times a year and holds additional meetings as 董事会每年定期举行最少四次会议及按情况and when the Board thinks appropriate. Board Committees also hold regular scheduled 需要召开额外会议。董事委员会亦定期举行meetings to discharge their duties. Meetings via telephone or video-conference are 会议以履行其职务。本公司章程细则批准透permitted under the Bye-Laws of the Company. Attendance record of the Board and 过电话或视像方式举行会议。于二零二一年Board Committees meetings during FY2021 is set out below. 年度，董事出席董事会及董事委员会会议次数之记录载列于下文。All Directors have access to the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that 全体董事均可联络公司秘书；公司秘书负责Board/Board Committees meeting procedures are observed and advising the Board/Board 确保遵守董事会╱董事委员会会议程序并向Committees on compliance matters. 董事会╱董事委员会就守规事宜作出建议。In an attempt to accommodate the competing time commitments of Directors who sit on 为确保身兼多个董事会职务之董事能抽空出multiple boards, dates of Board/Board Committees meetings are scheduled well in advance 席会议，董事会╱董事委员会会议日期于每at the beginning of every calendar year. The Company has given at least 14 days’ notice 年年初先行拟定。定期董事会及董事委员会for regular Board and Board Committees meetings. For all other Board/Board Committees 会议通告最少于会议日期前十四天发出。所meetings, reasonable notices are given. Draft agendas for Board and Board Committee 有其他董事会╱董事委员会会议均给予合理meetings are circulated to all Directors for comment before the meetings. The Directors 之通知时间。董事会及董事委员会会议之草were given the opportunities to include matters to be discussed in the agenda for all Board 拟议程于会议举行前给各董事审议。董事均and Board Committees meetings. 有机会提出将予商讨事项，以供列入董事会及董事委员会会议之议程内。The agenda accompanied by detailed Board papers (prepared in such form and manner as 董事会议程连同随附之文件（编制之形式及will enable the Board to make an informed decision on matters placed before it, including 方式须能致使董事会就提呈事项作出知情决but not limited to, background or explanatory information relating to matters to be 定，包括但不限于有关向董事会提呈之事项brought before the Board and internal financial information such as quarterly management 背景或说明数据以及内部财务数据，例如季accounts, forecasts and budgets with material variance between projections and actual 度管理账目、预测及预算，并阐释预期与实results explained) are circulated to all Directors in a timely manner and at least three days 际业绩间之重大分歧）将适时传递予全体董事before the date of scheduled meeting. 传阅，期限为拟举行会议日期前最少三日。Minutes of Board/Board Committees meetings are recorded in detail regarding the matters 董事会╱董事委员会会议之会议记录均详尽considered and decisions reached, including concerns raised by Directors or dissenting 记录会议所考虑之事项及达成之决定，包括views expressed. Draft minutes are circulated to relevant Directors/committee members 董事所关注之事宜或发表之反对意见。会议within a reasonable time after the meetings for comments and will then be approved 记录草稿于会议后一段合理时间内传递予有by the Board/Board Committees at the following meeting. Minutes of Board and Board 关董事╱委员会成员审阅并将于下一次董事Committees meetings are kept by the company secretary and are open for inspection at 会╱董事委员会会议予以批准。该等记录由any reasonable time on reasonable notice by any Director. 公司秘书存置，并于任何董事发出合理通知后于任何合理时间内供查阅。Annual Report 2021 年报 31IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书Directors are provided in a timely manner with complete, adequate explanation and 董事适时获提供有关本公司及其附属公司、information about the Company and its subsidiaries, its activities, performances and its 其业务、绩效及其项目（尤其包括与一系列已projects particularly including any significant variances from a planned course of actions to 计划之行动有重大差异者）之完整且足够的阐enable them to make an informed decision or assessment of the Group’s performance, 释及资料，以便彼等就本集团绩效、状况及position and prospects and to discharge their duties and responsibilities. In case when 前景作出知情决定或评估，并履行彼等之职the Directors have queries, they are provided with the names and contact details of the 务及责任。倘董事有任何疑问，彼等可获取Group’s senior executives for separate and independent access to them and they are able 本集团高级行政人员之姓名及联络资料，以to obtain more information than is volunteered by the management. Senior executives 分别独立联络有关人士，并可要求管理层提are from time to time brought into formal and informal contact with the Board at Board 供（主动提供以外）其他额外数据。高级行政meetings and other events. 人员不时与董事会于董事会会议及其他活动作正式及非正式的接触。The Board and Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to properly 董事会及董事委员会获得足够之资源以妥善discharge their duties including access to independent professional advisers under agreed 履行彼等之职责，其中包括于既定的程序procedures, upon reasonable request, at the expense of the Company. 下，在合理要求，咨询独立专业顾问，有关费用由本公司支付。The Board held a full board meeting each quarter. 董事会每季均会举行全体成员列席会议。Details of the attendance of the meetings of the members of the Board during the Year 董事会成员在本年度内出席会议之记录详情are as follows: 如下：Board Generalmeetings meetingsDirectors 董事 董事会会议 股东大会Executive Director: 执行董事：Zhu Yongning 朱永宁 4/4 2/2Non-Executive Director: 非执行董事：Cui Xiao 崔啸 4/4 2/2Independent Non-Executive Directors: 独立非执行董事：Zhou Meilin 周美林 4/4 0/2Zhou Rui 周锐 4/4 2/2Xu Jinwen 徐锦文 4/4 0/232 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书In addition to the above regular Board meetings during the Year, the members of the 除上述本年度内定期董事会会议外，董事会Board of Directors followed the principles of good corporate governance and the best 成员遵循《上市规则》附录十四的《企业管治守practices of the relevant code provisions and recommendations of the CG Code as 则》关于良好企业管治的原则与有关守则条set out in Appendix 14 of the Listing Rules and maintained a continuous dialogue with 文及建议最佳常规，与股东保持持续对话，shareholders, especially through the AGM or other plenary meetings to communicate with 尤其是藉股东周年大会或其他全体会议与股the shareholders. Pursuant to code provision C.1.6 of the CG Code, Independent Non- 东沟通。根据企业管治守则守则条文第C.1.6Executive Directors and other Non-Executive Directors should attend general meeting. 条，独立非执行董事及其他非执行董事应出However, Mr. Zhou Melin and Mr. Xu Jinwen, the Independent Non-Executive Directors, 席股东大会。然而，独立非执行董事周美林were unable to attend the AGM 2021 of the Company and the special general meeting of 先生及徐锦文先生因有其他要务而未能出席the Company held on 29 January 2021 due to their other prior engagements. 本公司二零二一年股东周年大会及本公司于二零二一年一月二十九日举行的股东特别大会。BOARD COMMITTEES 董事委员会To maximise the effectiveness of the Board and to encourage active participation and 为提高董事会效能以及鼓励董事会成员积极contribution from Board members, the Board has established four Board Committees, 参与及作出贡献，董事会已成立四个董事委namely the executive committee (the “EC”), audit committee (the “AC”), NCGC and 员会分别为执行委员会（“执行委员会”）、审remuneration committee (the “RC”) with specific written terms of reference that clearly 核委员会（“审核委员会”）、提名及企业管治deal with their authority and duties, to oversee particular aspects of the Company’s affairs, 委员会及薪酬委员会（“薪酬委员会”），并列assist in the execution of the Board’s responsibilities enable the Board Committees to 明特定职权范围以协助各委员会执行职务。perform their functions properly. Board Committees report to the Board on their work 该职权范围清晰列明该等委员会之职权及职and findings. They adopt as far as practicable, the principles, procedures and arrangements 责，以监督本公司特定方面之事务，并协助of the Board in relation to scheduling and conduct of meetings, notice of meetings and 执行董事会之职责，使董事委员会能够正确inclusion of agenda items, recording and availability of minutes. The written terms of 履行彼等的职责。董事委员会向董事会报告reference of the AC, NCGC and RC, which are in line with the CG Code, are available on 其工作及调查结果。彼等按实际可行情况采the website of the Company and the Stock Exchange and will be reviewed from time to 纳董事会有关拟定会议时间表及会议进行方time. The quorum necessary for transaction of business of each Board Committee is two. 式、会议通告及加载议程项目、保存及提供会议记录等之原则、程序及安排。审核委员会、提名及企业管治委员会及薪酬委员会包含列明符合企业管治守则之职权范围均载于本公司网站及联交所网站；并不时作出检讨。每个董事委员会处理事务之法定人数为两人。Annual Report 2021 年报 33IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书EC 执行委员会During FY2021, the EC comprised of all Executive Directors. 于二零二一年年度，执行委员会由全体执行董事组成。The EC meets as and when required to oversee the day-to-day management of the Group 执行委员会于需要时举行会议以便监察本集and has all the general powers of the Board except those matters specifically reserved for 团日常管理事务并拥有董事会的所有一般权the Board. 利，除需要董事会作出决定之特别事宜外。The principal duties of EC include: 执行委员会之主要职责包括：• managing the business and investments by overseeing the Group’s operations, • 透过监察本集团之营运、项目、资产与projects, assets and liabilities, budgets, compliance obligations and financial 负债、预算、守规责任及财务表现，依performance in accordance with the policies and directives of the Board; 照董事会之政策及指示以管理业务及投资；• making recommendations to the Board as to the Group’s overall policies, strategies • 就本集团业务发展而制定之整体政策、and financial objectives in the development of its business and ensuring their 策略及财务目标向董事会作出建议，以implementation and execution; and 及确保该等建议得以实施及执行；及• providing leadership to staff and management and nominating key personnel and • 领导员工及管理层及提名要员及确保授ensuring appropriate levels of authority are delegated to them. 予彼等适当之权力。NCGC 提名及企业管治委员会During FY2021, the NCGC is chaired by Mr. Zhou Rui, an Independent Non-Executive 于二零二一年年度，提名及企业管治委员会Director, and comprised another two Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely, 由一位独立非执行董事周锐先生担任主席，Mr. Xu Jinwen and Mr. Zhou Meilin. The NCGC meets at least once a year. As at 31 另包括两位独立非执行董事成员，即徐锦文December 2021, all NCGC members are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 先生和周美林先生。该委员会每年最少举行一次会议。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，所有提名及企业管治委员会成员均为独立非执行董事。34 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书The principal functions of the NCGC include: 提名及企业管治委员会之主要职责包括：• making recommendations to the Board on all new appointments or reappointments • 就新委任或续聘董事、制订董事继任计of Directors, the establishment of a succession plan for Directors, in particular the 划（尤其是主席及首席执行官）及董事会组chairman and CEO and the composition of the Board; 合向董事会作出建议；• identifying and nominating qualified individuals, subject to the approval of the Board, • 物色及提名合资格之人选（须待董事会to be additional Directors or to fill vacancy in the Board as and when they arise; 批准）为新增董事或于董事会出现空缺时填补人选；• reviewing on an annual basis the Board structure, size and composition and the • 每年审阅董事会架构、规模及组成以及independent element of the Board; 董事会之独立元素；• developing the criteria for selection of Directors; • 制订挑选董事之标准；• assessing the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors; • 评估独立非执行董事之独立性；• developing and reviewing the Company’s policies and practices on corporate • 拟定及检讨本公司的企业管治政策及实governance and make recommendations to the Board; 务守则，并向董事会作出建议；• reviewing and monitoring the training and continuous professional development of • 检讨及监察董事及高级管理层的培训及Directors and senior management; 持续专业发展；• reviewing and monitoring the Company’s policies and practices on compliance with • 检讨及监察本公司的政策及实务守则，legal and regulatory requirements; 确保符合法律及监管规定；• developing, reviewing and monitoring the code of conduct and compliance manual (if • 制订、检讨及监察雇员及董事的操守准any) applicable to employees and Directors; and 则及合规手册（如有）；及• reviewing the Company’s compliance with the CG Code and disclosure in the • 检讨本公司是否遵守企业管治守则及企Corporate Governance Report. 业管治报告披露的资料。The chairman of the NCGC will report to the Board on its proceedings and 提名及企业管治委员会之主席须于每次会议recommendations after each meeting. 后向董事会汇报会议进程及向其作出建议。Annual Report 2021 年报 35IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书During the Year, two meetings were held by the NCGC. Details of the attendance of the 于本年度内，提名及企业管治委员会共举行NCGC meeting are as follows: 两次会议。董事出席提名及企业管治委员会会议之记录详情如下：AttendanceDirectors 董事 出席次数Zhou Rui (Chairman) 周锐（主席） 1/2Xu Jinwen 徐锦文 1/2Zhou Meilin 周美林 2/2The main works performed by NCGC during the Year included reviewing the structure 提名及企业管治委员会于本年度履行之主要and composition of the Board, assessing independence of existing Independent Non- 工作包括检讨董事会的结构和组成、评估现Executive Directors and putting forward recommendations to the Board on re- 任独立非执行董事的独立性及向董事会建议election of retiring Directors as well as reviewing the updated board diversity policy and 重选退任董事与检讨及向董事会建议批准更recommending the same to the Board for approval. 新的董事会多元化政策。RC 薪酬委员会During FY2021, the RC is chaired by Mr. Xu Jinwen (an Independent Non-Executive 于二零二一年年度，薪酬委员会由徐锦文先Director) and comprised two members, namely, Mr. Zhou Rui and Mr. Zhou Meilin. As at 生（独立非执行董事）担任主席，并包括两位31 December 2021, all RC members are Independent Non-Executive Directors. 成员，即周锐先生及周美林先生。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，所有薪酬委员会成员均为独立非执行董事。The RC consults the chairman and the CEO about its proposals relating to the 薪酬委员会就其建议其他执行董事之薪酬事remuneration of other Executive Directors and has access to professional advice if 宜征询主席及首席执行官之意见，并可于有需considered necessary. The principal functions of the RC include: 要时咨询专业意见。其主要职能包括：• recommending to the Board on the Company’s policies and structure for the • 就本集团董事及高级管理层薪酬之本公remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Group; 司政策及架构向董事会作出建议；• recommending to the Board the remuneration packages of all Executive Directors • 就所有执行董事及高级管理层之薪酬计and senior management; and 划向董事会作出建议；及• reviewing and approving the management’s remuneration proposals with reference • 根据董事会的企业目的和目标检讨及批to the Board’s corporate goals and objectives. 准管理层的薪酬建议。The chairman of the RC will report to the Board on its proceedings and recommendations, 薪酬委员会主席须向董事会汇报会议进程及where appropriate, for the Board’ s consideration and/or approval. （如适当）向董事会要求对其建议作出考虑及╱或接纳。36 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书During FY2021, two meetings were held by the RC. Details of the attendance of the RC 于二零二一年年度，薪酬委员会共举行两次meeting are as follows: 会议。董事出席薪酬委员会会议之记录详情如下：AttendanceDirectors 董事 出席次数Xu Jinwen (Chairman) 徐锦文（主席） 2/2Zhou Meilin 周美林 2/2Zhou Rui 周锐 2/2The main works performed by RC during FY2021 included reviewing the annual 薪酬委员会于二零二一年年度履行之主要工remuneration of Directors and senior management and recommending the remuneration 作包括检讨董事及高管年度薪酬状况，及向of newly appointed Directors to the Board of Directors. 董事会建议新任命董事的薪酬。A general description of the Group’s emolument policy and long-term incentive schemes 有关本集团之薪酬政策及长期奖励计划以及as well as the basis of determining the emolument payable to each Directors for FY2021 厘订各董事于二零二一年年度应收薪酬标准are disclosed in the sub-section of “Human Resources and Remuneration Policy” in the 的概括说明载于本年报“管理层讨论及分析”section of “Management Discussion and Analysis” of this annual report and note 10 to the 章节下“人力资源及薪酬政策”一节以及本年consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 报综合财务报表附注10。AC 审核委员会During FY2021, the AC consisted of three Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely, 于二零二一年年度，审核委员会由三位独立Mr. Zhou Meilin (chairman), Mr. Zhou Rui and Mr. Xu Jinwen. The Board is of the opinion 非执行董事组成，即周美林先生（主席）、周that the majority of the members of the AC possess accounting and financial management 锐先生及徐锦文先生。董事会认为，大部分expertise or experience required to discharge their duties. 审核委员会成员均拥有所需会计及财务管理专业知识或经验，以履行彼等之职务。The major duties of AC include: 审核委员会主要职责包括：• considering and recommending the appointment, re-appointment and removal of • 考虑及建议委任、续聘及罢免外聘核数external auditor; 师；• approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of external auditor, any • 批准外聘核数师之薪酬、聘用条款及该questions of resignation or dismissal of that auditor; 核数师辞任或辞退之任何问题；• reviewing and monitoring external auditor’s independence and objectivity and the • 根据适用标准审阅及监察外聘核数师之effectiveness of the audit process in accordance with applicable standards; 独立性及客观性，以及核数程序之有效性；Annual Report 2021 年报 37IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书• discussing with external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and reporting • 于开始进行核数前与外聘核数师讨论有obligations before the audit commences; 关核数之性质及范畴和申报责任；• developing and implementing policy on the engagement of an external auditor • 就聘用外聘核数师提供非审核服务制订to supply non-audit services and making recommendation of any measures for 及落实政策，并就需要改善之事宜提出improvements to be taken; 建议措施；• monitoring integrity of financial statements, annual and interim reports and reviewing • 监察财务报表、年度及中期报告的完整significant financial reporting judgment contained in them. In this regard, the AC 性，并审阅其所载有关财务申报之重大reviews the interim and annual financial statements and the annual and the interim 判断。就此而言，审核委员会于递交董reports before submission to the Board, focusing particularly on: 事会前先行审阅中期及年度财务报表与年度及中期报告时，尤其集中于以下各项：(i) any changes in accounting policies and practices; (i) 任何会计政策及惯例变动；(ii) major judgmental areas; (ii) 涉及重要判断的地方；(iii) significant adjustments resulting from audit; (iii) 因核数所产生之重大调整；(iv) the going concern assumptions and any qualifications; (iv) 企业持续经营假设及任何保留意见；(v) compliance with accounting standards; (v) 是否遵守会计准则；(vi) compliance with the Listing Rules and other legal requirements in relation to (vi) 是否遵照上市规则及其他有关财financial reporting; and 务申报之法例规定；及(vii) any matters that have been raised by the Company’s staff responsible for the (vii) 由本公司负责会计及财务申报工accounting and financial reporting function or auditors; 作之员工或核数师所提出之任何事宜；38 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书• reviewing the Group’s financial controls, internal control and risk management • 检讨本集团之财务监控、内部监控及风systems; 险管理制度；• discussing with the management the system of internal control and ensuring that • 与管理层讨论内部监控系统，并确保管the management has discharged its duty to have an effective internal control 理层履行其职责，以维持有效之内部监system including the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff 控制度，包括提供足够资源、聘请具备of the Company’s accounting and financial reporting function, and their training 足够资历之员工负责本公司之会计及财programmes and budget; 申报工作以及确保有足够预算用作该等员工之培训计划；• considering major investigations of findings on internal control matters as delegated • 应董事会的委派或主动就有关内部监控by the Board or on its own initiative and management’s response to these findings; 事宜的重要调查结果及管理层对调查结果的回应进行重大研究；• reviewing the internal audit programme, ensuring co-ordination between the internal • 检讨内部审核规划，确保内部审计部及and external auditors, and ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately 外聘核数师通力合作，并确保内部审计resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company and reviewing and 功能有足够资源运作，且于本公司内有monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function; 适当的地位，以及检讨及监控内部审计职能之有效性；• reviewing the external auditor’s management letter, any material queries raised by • 检讨外聘核数师呈交予管理层的函件，the auditor to management in respect of the accounting records, financial accounts 以及核数师就会计记录、财务账目或监or systems of control and management’s response and ensuring that the Board will 控系统向管理层提出任何重大疑问及管provide a timely response to the issues raised; 理层之回应，以确保董事会对提出之事宜及时作出回应；• reviewing the Group’s financial and accounting policies and practices; • 检讨本集团之财务及会计政策与惯例；• reviewing the arrangements the Group’s employees can use, in confidence, to raise • 检讨为本集团雇员所设的保密安排，让concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, internal control or other 他们表达关乎财务汇报、内部管控或其matters. The AC should ensure that proper arrangements are in place for fair and 他事宜之可能不当行为的关注疑虑。审independent investigation of these matters and for appropriate follow-up action; and 核委员会应确保设有妥当安排公平独立调查上述事宜，以及采取适当的跟进行动；及• reporting to the Board on matters set out above and to consider other topics, as • 就上述各项所载的事宜向董事会汇报，defined by the Board. 及研究其他由董事会界定的课题。Annual Report 2021 年报 39IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书The AC has explicit authority to investigate any matter under the scope of its duties 审核委员会具有明确权力，按其职责范围调and the authority to obtain independent professional advice. It is given full access to and 查任何事宜及有权获取独立专业意见，并获cooperation of the management. It has been provided with reasonable resources to 管理层提供全面的支持及通力合作。审核discharge its duties properly. In the course of reviewing the Group’s financial information, 委员会获提供合理的资源，以妥为履行其职the AC members liaise closely with the Board and the chief financial officer to gather 务。在审阅本集团之财务资料的过程中，审relevant information. 核委员会与董事会及财务总监紧密联系以取得有关资料。During FY2021, two meetings were held by the AC. Details of the attendance of the AC 审核委员会于二零二一年年度举行两次会meetings are as follows: 议。审核委员会会议之出席记录详情如下：AttendanceDirectors 董事 出席次数Zhou Meilin (Chairman) 周美林（主席） 2/2Xu Jinwen 徐锦文 2/2Zhou Rui 周锐 2/2The major works performed by the AC during FY2021 included the review and 于二零二一年年度，审核委员会履行之主要consideration of the announcements relating to the Group’s interim and annual results; 工作包括审阅及考虑有关本集团中期及全年interim and annual reports; significant accounting and audit issues arising from annual 业绩之公布；中期及年度报告；年度审核audit of the Group’s financial statements; budget; periodic reports from internal audit 本集团财务报表所产生之重大会计及审核事department; internal audit plan; external auditor’s audit and non-audit fees as well as the 宜；预算案；内部审计部之定期报告；内部assessment and recommendation of re-appointment of auditor for the coming year. 审核计划；外聘核数师之审核及非审核费用以及评估及建议续聘来年公司核数师。Full minutes of the AC are kept at the Board office. Draft and finalised minutes of the 审核委员会之详尽会议记录存置于董事会办AC meetings are circulated to all members of the AC for their comment and records 公室，审核委员会会议记录之草稿及最终respectively, in both cases within reasonable time after the conclusion of the meetings. 稿，于会议结束后一段合理时间内传递予全体审核委员会成员，以供彼等提出意见及存档。40 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书Securities Transactions by Directors and Officers 董事及高级职员进行证券交易The Company has adopted a code of conduct by Directors and officers of the Group 本公司已采纳本集团董事及高级职员的行为on terms no less favourable than the standards set out by the Model Code for Securities 守则，其条款并不较上市规则附录十所载上Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (the “Model Code”) contained in Appendix 10 市发行人董事进行证券交易的标准守则（“标to the Listing Rules. 准守则”）之条款宽松。Having made specific enquiries to all Directors, save as disclosed above, all Directors 向全体董事作出特定查询后，除上文所披露confirmed that they had complied with the required standards set out in the Model Code 者外，全体董事确认彼等已于整个二零二一throughout FY2021. 年年度遵守标准守则所载之标准。The Board members have been reminded of their obligation to comply with the Model 董事会成员获提醒其有义务遵守标准守则。Code.Directors as well as officers of the Company who are in possession of unpublished inside 被视为知悉有关本公司或其股份未经公布内information in relation to the Company or its shares are prohibited from dealing in shares 幕消息数据之本公司董事及高级职员禁止买of the Company and are also prohibited from dealing in shares during the black-out period. 卖本公司股份，亦禁止于禁售期间买卖股份。INSURANCE 保险Pursuant to code provision C.1.8 of the CG Code, the Company should arrange 根据企业管治守则守则条文第C.1.8条，本公appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors. 司应就董事可能会面对的法律行动作适当的投保安排。During FY2021, no such insurance cover has been arranged for the Directors due to the 于二零二一年年度，由于保险公司拒绝在本insurance company refusing to provide service within the Company’s budget. 公司预算范围内提供服务，故概无为董事安排此类保险。Annual Report 2021 年报 41IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT 问责及审核Financial reporting 财务汇报The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for preparing the financial statements which 董事知悉其责任乃编制反映本公司及本集团give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and results of the Company and of the 真实公平事务状况及业绩之财务报表。彼等Group. Their responsibilities have also been stated in the section headed “Independent 之责任亦于本年报之“独立核数师报告”一Auditor’s Report” contained in this annual report. In preparing the financial statements 节内提及。于编制二零二一年年度之财务报for FY2021, the Directors have selected suitable accounting policies and applied them 表时，董事已挑选适合之会计政策及贯彻应consistently and made accounting judgments and estimates that are prudent and reasonable 用，并作出审慎合理之判断及估计。在财务in the circumstances. With the assistance of the finance department, the Directors ensure 部协助下，董事确保本集团之财务报表乃根that the financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with statutory 据法例规定及适当财务报告准则而编制。requirements and appropriate financial reporting standards.Management recognises the importance of providing the Board with appropriate and 管理层认同在准确与及时的基准上向董事会relevant information on an accurate and timely basis. Quarterly business review and 提供适当及相关之数据的重要性。董事会获financial reports comparing the Group’s actual performance with budget and highlighting 提供季度业务回顾及财务报告（载有本集团major relevant issues are provided to the Board to enable it to make an informed assessment 实际表现与预算案之比较及主要相关事项择on the Group’s performance, position and prospects. Under the CG Code, monthly 要），使其对本集团之绩效、情况及前景能作updates are required to be provided to all Directors. 出知情评估。根据企业管治守则，每月需向所有董事提供更新数据。The Board endeavours to ensure a balanced, clear and understandable assessment 董事会致力确保对本集团之状况及前景作出of the Group’s position and prospects to extend to the Group’s financial reporting 客观、明确及可理解之评估，并将范围扩大including annual and interim reports, other price-sensitive announcements and other 至本集团之年度及中期报告财务申报、其他financial disclosures required under the Listing Rules, and reports to regulators as well as 涉及股价敏感资料的公布、其他根据上市规information required to be disclosed pursuant to statutory requirements. 则须予披露之财务资料、致监管机构之报告书以及法定须予披露之其他数据。The Company publishes its interim and annual financial results and reports in accordance 本公司遵照上市规则之规定刊发中期及全年with the requirements under the Listing Rules. 财务业绩及报告。42 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书External Auditor and Auditor’s Remuneration 外聘核数师及核数师酬金The external auditor of the Company is Mazars CPA Limited (“Mazars”). The AC is 本公司之外聘核数师为中审众环（香港）会计responsible for considering the selection, appointment, resignation or dismissal of external 师事务所有限公司（“中审众环”）。审核委员auditors. The Board has no disagreement with the AC’s view on the re-appointment of 会负责考虑甄选、委任、离任及罢免外聘核external auditor. 数师等事宜。董事会于续聘外聘核数师一事并无与审核委员会持不同意见。The statement of Mazars, the independent auditor of the Company, regarding their 本公司独立核数师中审众环对其就本集团二reporting responsibility on the financial statements of the Group for FY2021 is set out 零二一年年度财务报表承担之报告责任所作in the section headed “Independent Auditor’s Report” contained in this annual report. 声明载于本年报之“独立核数师报告”一节Representatives from Mazars met up with the AC in meetings to answer questions. 内。中审众环之代表与审核委员会成员会面以回答问题。For FY2021, fees paid or payable to the auditor of the Company, Mazars, by the Group are 于二零二一年年度，本集团已付或应付本公as follows: 司核数师中审众环之费用如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元– Audit services －审核服务 1.2 1.2– Non-audit services －非审核服务 0.2 0.11.4 1.3Annual Report 2021 年报 43IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书Risk Management and Internal Controls 风险管理及内部监控The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound and effective risk management and 董事会负责维护本集团健全及有效的风险管internal control systems of the Group, and for reviewing their design, operational adequacy 理及内部监控制度，并审查有关设计、操作and effectiveness. 的充分性和有效性。The Group’s risk management and internal control systems encompass their policies, 本集团之风险管理及内部监控制度包含其政processes, tasks, and other aspects of the Group that taken together: 策、程序、工作，连同本集团其他范畴，旨在：• facilitate their effective and efficient operation by allowing it to respond appropriately • 容许其适当地于重大业务、营运、财to significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks with a 务、合规及其他风险等方面作出意见，view to achieving business objectives. This includes the safeguarding of assets from 促进营运之效率及成效以达到业务目inappropriate use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified 标。此包括保障资产免受不适当的使用and managed; 或损失及诈骗，并且保证责任得以确定及处理；• help ensure maintenance of proper accounting records for the provision of reliable • 确保保存妥当的会计记录以提供可靠之financial information for internal or external reporting; and 财务数据供内部使用或对外汇报；及• help ensure compliance with relevant legislation and regulations, and also with • 确保遵守相关法例及规定，以及有关工internal policies with respect to the conduct of business. 作方式遵守内部政策。The risk management and internal control systems are designed to provide reasonable, 风险管理及内部监控制度乃为合理但非绝对but not absolute, assurance of no material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than 地确保防范重大错误陈述或损失，以及旨在eliminate risks of failure in operational systems and achievement of the Group’s objectives. 管理而非消除营运制度失当之风险，以达致本集团之目标。44 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书The key procedures that the Board established to provide effective risk management and 董事会为提供有效风险管理及内部监控而制internal controls are as follows: 订之主要程序如下：• A distinct organisation structure exists with defined lines of authority and • 订定一个权力范围与责任界定清楚的企responsibilities. Division/department heads are involved in preparing the strategic 业架构。分部╱部门主管参与准备策略plan which lays down the corporate strategies to be pursued in the coming year for 性计划，当中列出来年须跟随之企业策achieving the annual operating plan and the annual operational and financial targets. 略以达成年度营运计划及年度营运与财Both the strategic plan and the annual operating plan lay down the foundation for 务目标。策略性计划及年度营运计划均the preparation of the annual budget by which resources are allocated in accordance 为准备年度预算案之基础，其按既定及with identified and prioritised business opportunities. The annual operating plan is 优先的商业契机分配资源。该年度营运submitted for approval by the EC subject to regular review. The strategic plan is 计划已经由执行委员会提交供批准并须presented to the Board by management subject to regular review and the annual 定期进行检讨。策略性计划已经由管理budget is approved by the Board yearly; 层向董事会汇报并须定期进行检讨；而年度预算案则由董事会每年批准；• A comprehensive monthly management reporting system is in place providing • 订立每月详细的管理汇报制度，以向管financial and operational performance indicators to the management, and the 理层提供财务及营运表现指标，并提供relevant financial information for reporting and disclosure purposes. Variances against 财务资料，供有关汇报及披露用途。对budgets are analysed, and explained, and appropriate actions are taken, if necessary, 预算差异作出分析及阐释，并于有需要to rectify deficiencies noted; and 时采取适当之行动以弥补所知之不足；及• System and procedures are in place to identify, measure, manage and control risks • 订立制度及程序以识别、衡量、管理及including legal, credit, market, operational, environmental, behavioral and system 监控可能影响本集团之法律、信贷、市risks that may have an impact on the Group. 场、营运、环境、行为及制度等风险。The Group’s internal audit department (“IA”) performs audit reviews of the risks and 本集团内部审计部（“内部审计部”）就本集团key controls of the Group. IA plays an important role in monitoring the Group’s internal 之风险及主要监控进行审核检讨。内部审计governance, evaluating the quality of the risk management and internal control systems 部于监察本集团内部管治上、评估风险管理and informing the Board whether sound risk management and internal control systems are 及内部监控制度质素及向董事会汇报管理层maintained and operated by the management in compliance with agreed processes and 是否已遵照协定之程序及标准维持及实施妥standards. To preserve the independence of the internal audit function, the head of IA 善之风险管理及内部监控制度上担当重要角reports directly to the AC on audit matters and to the CEO on administrative matters. 色。为保留内部审计功能之独立性，内部审计部主管直接向审核委员会汇报有关审核事宜及向首席执行官汇报行政事宜。Annual Report 2021 年报 45IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书Using a risk management-based approach audit, IA plans its internal audit projects annually 内部审计部采用风险管理为本之审核方法，in consultation with, but independent of, management. The audit methodology and 规划其年度内部审核规划（会咨询但独立于管process adopted by IA include understanding and analysing the business, determining risk 理层）。内部审计部所采纳之审核方法及程序areas within key processes; analysing and evaluating the process control effectiveness and 包括理解及分析业务、在主要程序上决定风communicating results and follow up. Independent reviews of different financial, business 险范围、分析及评估程序监控之有效性及传and functional operations and activities will be conducted with audit resources being 达结果与跟进。不同之财政、业务、功能运focused on higher risk areas. Ad-hoc reviews will also be conducted on areas of concern 作及活动之独立检讨将配合审核资源进行，identified by the AC and the management. 并集中于高风险之范围。倘审核委员会及管理层识别出值得关注之事宜，亦会以专责方式进行检讨。The Company has established written policies and procedures on daily operations, covering 本公司已为日常经营、流程、采用方法、评process flow, methodology adopted, reviewing process and reporting system. Division/ 核流程及汇报制度制定列明的政策及程序。department heads will be notified of the control deficiencies noted for rectification, and 分部╱部门主管将获通知监控不足之处以进IA will follow up with the implementation of audit recommendations. Significant internal 行修正，而内部审计部将跟进落实审核建议control weaknesses are brought to the attention of the AC and if necessary to the Board, 之事宜。重要之内部监控不足将提呈审核委and to the senior management for remedial actions. 员会请予注意（及如有需要提呈予董事会），及高级管理层以作出补救行动。During the Year, the Board, through the AC, has conducted reviews on a regular basis, of 于本年度内，董事会已通过审核委员会定期the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems covering 对本集团风险管理及内部监控制度的有效性all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk （涵盖所有重大监控、包括财务、营运及合规management functions and gave due deliberation/consideration to the adequacy of 监控，以及风险管理程序）进行检讨，并对资resources, staff qualifications and experience of the accounting and financial reporting 源、员工在会计及财务汇报的合适性及经验function. 作谨慎考虑。Furthermore, the whistleblowing policy has been adopted by the Board for the Group’s 再者，董事会采纳了举报政策以让本集团之employees, customers and suppliers to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible 雇员、顾客及供货商对本集团任何可能处理improprieties in any matters related to the Group. 不当之事宜提出保密举报。46 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS’ 与股东之沟通及股东权益RIGHTShareholders Communication 股东沟通The Company strives to convey to shareholders pertinent information in a clear, detailed, 本公司致力向股东传达明确、详尽、适时及timely manner and on a regular basis and to take into consideration their views and inputs, 定期之相关数据，并考虑彼等之意见及建议and address shareholders’ concerns. Their views are communicated to the Board as a 以及处理股东关注之事宜。彼等之意见会整whole. 体向董事会传达。The Company communicates with its shareholders through the publication of annual and 本公司透过刊发年报、中期报告、业绩公interim reports, results announcements, other announcements and documents required 布、根据上市规则须刊发的公布及文件，及to be published pursuant to the Listing Rules, and press releases. All shareholders’ 新闻稿与股东沟通。所有与股东之通讯亦载communications are also available on the Stock Exchange’s website at www.hkex.com.hk 于联交所网站www.hkex.com.hk或本公司网站or the Company’s website at www.idthk.com. www.idthk.com。The AGM of the Company provides a useful forum for shareholders to exchange views 本公司股东周年大会为股东与董事会交换意with the Board. The chairman of the Board as well as chairmen of AC, NCGC and/or RC, 见之有用论坛。董事会主席以及审核委员or in their absence, members of the Board Committees are generally available to answer 会、提名及企业管治委员会及╱或薪酬委员shareholders’ questions. 会之主席（如彼等缺席，则董事委员会成员）通常会出席回答股东之问题。Separate resolutions are proposed at general meetings on each substantially separate issue, 每一个实质上独立之个别事项（包括推选个别including the election of individual directors. Votes cast on each resolution at the general 董事）均以独立决议案提呈于股东大会上。股meetings are properly counted and recorded. 东大会上对每项决议案的票数均获妥为点算及记录在案。At each general meeting, the shareholders will be informed of the detailed procedures 在每一个股东大会上，股东将获通知有关投for conducting a poll and answers will be provided if there are any questions from the 票表决之详细程序。股东如有任何提问亦将shareholders. The poll results are posted on the Stock Exchange’s website and the 获得解答。投票结果会于联交所网站及本公Company’s website. 司网站公布。Annual Report 2021 年报 47IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书PROCEDURES FOR SHAREHOLDERS TO CONVENE A SPECIAL GENERAL 股东召开股东特别大会（“股东特别大会”）MEETING (“SGM”) 之程序The Directors of the Company, notwithstanding anything in its Bye-Laws shall, on the 即使本公司章程细则另有任何规定，本公司requisition of shareholders of the Company holding at the date of the deposit of the 董事须于收到本公司股东（该等股东于送达要requisition not less than one-tenth of such of the paid-up capital of the Company as at 求日期当日持有本公司截至该日附带本公司the date of the deposit carries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company, 股东大会投票权的实缴股本不少于十分之一）forthwith proceed duly to convene a SGM of the Company. 要求时，立即着手正式召开本公司之股东特别大会。The requisition must state the purposes of the meeting, and must be signed by the 该要求须述明有关会议之目的，并须由要求requisitionists and addressed to the company secretary and deposited at the Company’s 人签署及送达本公司之香港主要营业地点交principal place of business in Hong Kong. 予公司秘书。The request will be verified with the Company’s share registrars and upon their 本公司会向本公司之股份过户登记处核实该confirmation that the request is proper and in order, the company secretary will ask the 要求，于获得股份过户登记处确认为正式及Board to include the resolution in the agenda for the SGM. 妥为提交之要求后，公司秘书将要求董事会在股东特别大会的议程内加入有关决议案。If the Directors do not within twenty-one days from the date of the deposit of the 倘董事于上述要求之送达日期二十一日内并requisition proceed duly to convene a meeting, the requisitionists, or any of them 无正式召开会议，要求人（或代表要求人总投representing more than one half of the total voting rights of all of them, may themselves 票权超过一半以上之任何要求人）可自行召开convene a meeting, but any meeting so convened shall not be held after the expiration of 会议，惟所召开之任何会议不得于上述日期three months from the said date. 起计三个月届满后举行。Procedures for shareholders to put forward proposals at general meetings 股东于股东大会作出提案之程序Shareholders who want to put forward proposals at an AGM or SGM should submit a 股东若要在股东周年大会或股东特别大会上written notice of those proposals with their detailed contact information to the company 提出提案，须书面提交该等提案，并连同详secretary at the Company’s principal place of business in Hong Kong. The request will be 细联络资料，送达本公司之香港主要营业地verified with the Company’s share registrars and upon their confirmation that the request is 点交予公司秘书。本公司会向本公司之股份proper and in order, the company secretary will ask the Board to include the resolution in 过户登记处核实该要求，于获得股份过户登the agenda for the general meeting. 记处确认为正式及妥为提交之要求后，公司秘书将要求董事会在股东大会的议程内加入有关决议案。48 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Corporate Governance Report企业管治报告书Procedures for Shareholders to Send Enquiries to the Board 股东向董事会查询之程序Shareholders’ enquiries must be in writing setting out their contact information and 股东提出的查询须以书面方式连同查询人之addressed to the company secretary and deposited at the Company’s principal place of 联络资料送达本公司之香港主要营业地点交business in Hong Kong at Block C, 9th Floor, Phase 1, Kaiser Estate, 41 Man Yue Street, 予公司秘书，地址为香港九龙红磡民裕街41Hunghom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 号凯旋工商中心1期9楼C座。COMPANY SECRETARY 公司秘书The company secretary reports to the Board and is responsible for assisting the Board 公司秘书向董事会呈报并负责协助董事会遵to follow the Board procedures and policies. Mr. Chen Kun, the Company Secretary of 循董事会程序及政策。于二零二一年年度，the Company during FY2021, had attended relevant professional seminars to update his 本公司公司秘书陈坤先生已出席多个相关的knowledge and skills. He had complied with the Listing Rules and taken no less than 15 专业讲座，以更新其知识及技能。彼已遵守hours of relevant professional training. 上市规则之规定及接受不少于15小时的相关专业培训。INVESTOR RELATIONS 投资者关系The Board recognises that effective communication to investors is the key to establishing 董事会深知与投资者之有效沟通，乃建立投investor confidence and attracting new investors. 资者信心及吸引新投资者之关键。Measures taken by the Group include: 本集团所实行之有关举措包括：• Annual and interim reports are prepared and issued to all shareholders within the • 本集团于联交所规定期间内编制年度及prescribed period stipulated by the Stock Exchange. All results announcements and 中期报告，并刊发予全体股东。所有业reports are posted on the Stock Exchange’s website and the Company’s website. 绩公布及报告均载于联交所网站及本公司网站。• The Group regularly releases corporate information such as awards received, • 本集团定期于本公司网站公布公司资product launches and the latest news of the Group’s developments on the 料，例如其所获得奖项、产品推出情况Company’s website. The public are welcome to give their comments and make their 及本集团发展之最新消息等。本集团欢enquiries through the Company’s website and the management will provide their 迎公众人士透过本公司网站提出意见及prompt response. 查询，管理层将会迅速跟进。• The constitutional documents of the Company can be found on the websites of • 本公司之宪章文件可于本公司及联交所the Company and the Stock Exchange and there is no change in the Company’s 网站查阅。于回顾期内，宪章文件并无constitutional documents during the period under review. 任何变动。Annual Report 2021 年报 49健 康 及 保 健Health & Wellness你的健康之道The Path to a Healthier YouIDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告The Group complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Stock Exchange. 本集团遵守联交所上市规则之要求，于本年During the Year, it was committed to raising the environmental, social and governance of 度内，致力于将本集团的环境、社会及管the Group to a higher level, and hereby presents its Environmental, Social and Governance 治提升至更高水平，并按照上市规则附录Report for the Year prepared in accordance with the Environmental, Social and 二十七《环境、社会及管治报告指引》刊发本Governance Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 of the Listing Rules. 集团于本年度之环境、社会及管治报告。1. SCOPE 1. 范围This report is focused on reporting the performance of the Group in promoting 本报告重点汇报本集团于二零二一年一corporate social responsibility during the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 月一日至二零二一年十二月三十一日期December 2021, mainly including the disclosure of the policies and practices which 间在推行企业社会责任方面之表现，主are of material concern to key social institutions and individuals, including investors, 要囊括与主要社会机构及个体，包括投employees, customers, government, suppliers and contractors, communities and 资者、雇员、客户、政府、供应商及承the public (the “stakeholders”) as well as the key performance indicators, covering 包商、社区及公众（“权益人”）重要相关the two business segments owned by the Group, and the daily operations of the 的政策常规及关键绩效指标披露，其中Group’s Hong Kong office and Shenzhen factory. 涵盖本集团所拥有的两个业务分部，与本集团旗下香港办公室及深圳工厂之日常营运。52 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告2. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS 2. 权益人的参与The Group has established various channels to allow stakeholders to participate 本集团为权益人开放多种管道参与到本in the Company’s operations, and to understand and monitor the Company’s 公司运营中，了解和监督本公司的运营operating conditions, so as to promote the formation of a community of harmony 状况，意在营造一个和谐共荣的利益共and common interest between the Group and stakeholders and realise maximum 同体，促进本集团与权益人的和谐共comprehensive social interest, which includes optimal corporate revenue. 荣，实现包括企业收益最大化在内的社Stakeholders can participate in the Company’s operations through the following 会综合效益最大化。权益人可从以下途channels: 径参与本公司的运营：Channels and means ofStakeholders Key targets and interests communication and participation Company measures权益人 主要目标及关注点 沟通参与方式和管道 公司措施Shareholders and Robust operations, revenue and General meetings, investors’ Publication of notifications and resolutions ofinvestors returns, protection of shareholders’ conferences and site visits, disclosure the shareholders’ meetings and disclosure ofinterest, true, accurate and timely of information (including financial information of the Company in accordancedisclosure of information. statements) and contact information with rules; organisation of various investorof the Company. activities to enhance investor recognition;publication of the Company’s contactinformation on the Company’s website andreports, and ensuring communication channelsremain smooth.股东及投资者 稳健运营，收益回报，股东权 股东大会，投资者咨询和考察， 按规定发布股东大会通知和议案，披露公益保护，信息披露真实、准 信息披露（含财务报表）及公司联 司信息。开展多种形式的投资者活动，提确、及时。 系方式。 高投资者的认可度。在网站和报告中公开公司联系方式，并确保各种沟通管道畅通。Annual Report 2021 年报 53IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Channels and means ofStakeholders Key targets and interests communication and participation Company measures权益人 主要目标及关注点 沟通参与方式和管道 公司措施Employees Protection of basic rights, Workers union, communication Establishment of workers union to providewelfare and remuneration, work channels between employees and workers with a platform to communicate;environment, development management, feedback boxes, staff payment of salaries and benefits in full and onopportunities, occupational health activities, training and education. time; payment of social security insurance inand safety, realisation of self-worth. accordance with law; provision of a healthyand safe working environment; establishmentof a fair promotion mechanism; caring aboutour employees, organising employee activities,trainings and learning activities.员工 基本权益保障，福利薪酬待 工会，员工与管理层沟通管道， 成立工会组织，提供员工交流平台；及时遇，工作环境，发展空间，职 意见箱，员工活动，培训与学 足额发放薪酬福利，依法缴纳社会保险；业健康与安全，自我价值实现。 习。 提供健康、安全的工作环境；建立公平的晋升机制；关爱员工，说明困难职工，组织员工活动，培训与学习。Customers Guarantee product quality and Regular visits and communication. A central email system, Red-Mine, has beendelivery, long-term stable co- Strengthening of quality control, implemented throughout the Group, tooperation. assurance of steady production and improve email communication and follow-smooth logistic process; provision up efficiency, and a technical study intoof adequate products; entering into an automatic reply smart service for ourlong term sales agreements with customer email mailbox is in progress.customers.客户 产品质量和供货保证，长期稳 定期拜访，保持日常沟通。加强 集团各地已统一使用中央电邮系统定合作。 质量管理，保证生产稳定和运输 Red-Mine以提升电邮沟通及跟进效率，并通畅，提供足量产品，与客户签 正进行在顾客电邮信箱加入自动回复之智订长期销售协议。 慧服务方面的技术研究。54 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Channels and means ofStakeholders Key targets and interests communication and participation Company measures权益人 主要目标及关注点 沟通参与方式和管道 公司措施Government Lawful operations, payment of Site visits, inspections, work Conduction of operation in accordance withtax in accordance with the law, conference and discussion, work the law; compliance management, payment ofproduction safety, fulfillment of reports, submissions and approvals. tax in accordance with the law; strengtheningsocial responsibility. of the Company’s safety management;acceptance of government supervision,inspection and examination in accordancewith regulations, active assumption of socialresponsibilities.政府 合法经营，依法纳税，安全生 现场视察、检查，工作会议研 合法经营，合规管理、依法纳税，加强公产，履行社会责任。 讨，工作报告、报送、审批。 司安全管理；按规定接受政府监督、检查及现场考察，积极承担社会责任。Suppliers and Fair bidding, long-term stable Public bidding meetings and business Fair bidding, selection by merit, performancecontractors cooperation and timely payment. meetings, regular communications. of contractual obligations, strengthening ofregular communications, maintenance oflongterm cooperation with quality suppliersand contractors.供货商、承包商 公平招标，长期稳定合作，按 招投标会议，洽谈会，日常沟 公平招标，择优选择，按约履行合同，加时付款。 通。 强日常交流，与优质供货商和承包商保持长期合作。Community and Job opportunities, community Co-hosting of community activities, Promotion of community building andthe public development, ecological charity, volunteer service and development, provision of volunteer service,environment, compensation and co-construction of the community. establishment of communication channels forassistance. the community and the community members;hosting of community activities, promotion ofthe building of harmonious community.社区与公众 就业机会，社区发展，生态环 共办社区活动，慈善援助，志愿 促进社区建设和发展，提供志愿者服务，境，补偿与援助。 者服务，社区共建活动。 开放与社区和社区成员的沟通管道；共办社区活动，促进建设和谐社区。Annual Report 2021 年报 55IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE 3. 环境、社会及管治表现3.1 Environment 3.1 环境3.1.1 Emissions 3.1.1 排放物Responding actively to the global trend of emission reduction, the Group 集团积极响应全球关注的减排趋is committed to minimising release of greenhouse gases, wastewater, solid 势，在日常营运中致力避免产生wastes and other pollutants in its daily operations. Therefore, a series of 温室气体、废水、固体废物等污environmental policies have been developed to strengthen the control of 染物，故制定了一系列的环保政emissions, including: 策加强排放物控制，其中包括：Waste reduction 减少废弃物Most of the electronic waste generated in the manufacturing process, 集团在制造业务上产生的电子废including the scrapped circuit boards, scrapped parts and malfunctioned 品，包括报废的电路板，零部components, are returned or handled directly by recycling companies. At the 件，坏掉的部件，大部分都会安same time, the Group continues to seek improvements in the manufacturing 排退货或者直接由回收商回收，process and technology in order to increase productivity and reduce 同时不断寻求完善制造过程及技generation of scrapped electronic products and parts during the production 术，以提高生产效益，减少在生process. 产过程中报废的电子产品及部件。To reduce the generation of waste from factory logistics, the application of 为了减少在工厂物流中所产生的reusable boxes has been increased, reducing waste generated from the use 废弃物，增加周转箱的应用，减of easily damaged logistics equipment made of paper or plastic. 少因采用纸质或塑料等容易损毁的搬运工具而产生的废弃物。The Group conducts waste categorisation for proper disposal. Recyclables are 集团会对不同的废弃物分类作合identified and sorting bins are placed while waste sorting training programmes 适的处理，确认可回收的废物，are conducted to encourage employees to actively participate in waste 并设立分类垃圾桶，举办垃圾分recycling. 类培训活动以鼓励员工积极参与回收废弃物。Electronic products involve application of batteries. The Group understands 电子产品涉及不少电池的应用，the far-reaching impact of batteries on the environment and therefore has 集团了解电池对环境的深远影designated old battery collection locations to promote appropriate handling 响，因此设立废旧电池回收处，and recycling of disposed batteries. 且倡导废旧电池回收处理。56 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Other than used batteries, the Group is also concerned with waste 除了废电池，集团亦关注纸箱的cardboard. Therefore, recycling bins have been set up and recycling 废弃，故增设回收箱收集废纸，companies have been engaged to handle waste papers. 并安排回收商前来处理。The Group regularly evaluates the production process to find out the sources 集团定期评估生产流程，找出有of hazardous wastes, and defines action plans to reduce these wastes. The 害废弃物产生的源头，制定减少Group also put labels to differentiate hazardous and non-hazardous wastes 有害废弃物的行动计划；并且将to facilitate hazardous wastes being handled properly by the qualified service 有害废弃物及无害废弃物作不同providers. 标识，以便安排有害废弃物交由合资格的服务商适当地处置。Currently, the hazardous wastes produced by the Group include used 目前集团业务所产生的有害废弃batteries, sewage sludge, oil rags and contaminated gloves; whereas non- 物包括废电池、废水处理后的污hazardous wastes mainly include disposed capsules and carton wastes. 泥、油抹布、用后受污染的手套等，而一般的无害废弃物主要为废胶囊、废弃包装箱等。The Group has demonstrated the following results in the reporting period 透过落实以上政策及措施，集团through the implementation of the aforesaid policies and measures for waste 于报告期间在废物排放的表现如reduction: 下：Total annual weight Intensity per production unit(tons) (gram/piece)全年总量 每生产单位的排放密度Types of wastes 废弃物种类 （吨） （克╱件）2021 2020 2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年Hazardous waste 有害废弃物 0.5 1.7 5.8 8.80Non-hazardous waste 无害废弃物 3.8 6.7 44.1 34.69Reduction of wastewater discharge 减少废水排放The Group’s factory in Shenzhen discharges both industrial and domestic 集团在深圳的工厂业务会产生工wastewater. The factory has installed sewage treatment facilities to reduce 业废水及生活废水，工厂已建设the pollutants in the wastewater, and has additional facility for re-use of the 污水处理设备以减少废水内的污treated wastewater. This approach not only reduces wastewater discharge 染物，还增加设备把经处理后的but also helps the Group to use less fresh water. 废水再循环使用，在减少废水排放的同时为集团节省用水量。Annual Report 2021 年报 57IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 减少温室气体排放The Group seeks to adopt renewable or other clean energy in replacement 集团寻求采用可再生或其他洁净of coal combustion facilities in order to reduce the generation and emission 能源，代替燃煤设备，减少硫化of sulphur and nitrogen oxides. In addition, the Group actively implements 物、氮氧化物的产生和排放。此other administrative means to reduce GHG emissions, including: 外，集团积极以其他行政手段减少温室气体的排放，包括：Reduction of business trips 减少商务出差The Group thoroughly understands that business trips increase energy 集团深切理解商务出差会增加能consumption and lead to an increase in GHG emissions; therefore, the Group 源消耗，导致温室气体排放的增actively decreases the number of business trips to reduce GHG emissions, 加，故积极减少公干次数，降低and switches to other effective communication methods, including avoidance 因公干而导致的温室气体排放，of long-distance meetings which are replaced with telephone and/or video 改用其他有效的沟通方法，包括conferences, as well as using bulk courier service instead of conducting 避免举行长途会议，以电话及╱delivery ourselves to reduce GHG emissions from additional traffic. 或视像会议取代，并且以速递集体寄送物料以取代自行送货，致力减少由额外交通造成的温室气体排放。Sourcing from local suppliers 支持本地供货商采购Similar to business trips, sourcing with non-local suppliers requires additional 采用非本地供货商须要额外的运transportation which increases energy consumption and GHG emissions. 输过程，情况如同商务出差，对Preference is given to local suppliers as long as they meet the Group’s 应增加能源消耗及温室气体的排requirements. In each procurement process, the Group will firstly consider 放，故在符合集团要求的条件and invite local suppliers to provide quotations and product information, and 下，优先选用本地供货商。在每then giving balanced consideration to factors such as raw material quality, cost 次的采购过程，集团会先考虑及and environmental protection. Non-local procurement will be considered 邀请本地供货商作报价及提供产only when the local suppliers fail to meet the relevant conditions. 品数据，集团会平衡地考虑原料质量、成本、环境保护等因素，只有在本地供货商供货不符合相关条件时，才考虑非本地采购。58 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Environmental education 环保教育The Group understands the long-term impact of the electronics industry on 集团明白电子产业对环境的长远the environment, and hence has taken on an active role in the supply chain to 影响，故在供应链中担当积极的promote the importance of emission reduction. The Group has established 角色，致力推广减排的重要性，environmental management measures for suppliers to follow, including: for 制定了环境管理措施要求供货商all vehicles that enter the Group’s premises, engines must be turned off and 遵守，包括：凡进入集团内的车may not be kept idle which emits exhaust within the factory’s premises; the 辆，停车后必须熄匙，不得保持exhaust emissions need to comply with the environmental requirements; all 引擎转动并在厂区内排放废气；persons within the factory’s premises shall abide by the requirements such 尾气的排放量须符合环保要求；as waste classification, no littering and no smoking. In addition, the Group 进入厂区所有人员必须遵守垃圾requires chemical suppliers and transporters to ensure that chemicals are 分类、垃圾不落地及禁止吸烟等protected against leakage before arrival and the packaging, containers and 要求。此外，集团要求化学品供labels of chemicals must comply with the relevant regulatory requirements; 应及运输商确保化学品在运抵前and the supply of materials, semi-finished products and finished products 做好防泄漏措施，而化学品的包shall not contain any intentional or unintentional addition of flammable and 装、容器及标识等必须符合相关explosive substances. 法例要求；及供应的物料、半成品和成品亦不得包含任何有意或非故意添加的易燃易爆物质。The Group also incorporates the concept of environmental protection 集团亦将环境保护概念纳入员工into employee’s annual training program to enhance their environmental 的年度培训计划中，提升他们的awareness. Environmental training topics include RoHS, ISO14001 环保意识。环保培训课题包括environmental awareness, waste classification, chemical safety and so on. For RoHS、ISO14001环保意识、废弃key positions such as manufacturing and cleaning, trainings are provided to 物分类、化学品安全等。针对制new employees of each month to ensure that they can classify and identify 造及清洁等关键岗位，更为每月hazardous and non-hazardous wastes as well as arrange the qualified recycling 新入职的员工提供培训，确保他companies for handling. 们能分类及标识有害废弃物与无害废弃物，并安排合资格的回收公司处理。Annual Report 2021 年报 59IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告During the reporting period, the Group did not have any non-compliance 在报告期间，集团没有任何违反incidents of environmental legislations. The sources and emission volumes of 环境法例的个案发生。温室气体GHG are as follows: 的源头及排放量如下：GHG emission volumesTotal consumption volumes (kg carbon dioxide equivalent)温室气体排放量GHG emission sources 温室气体的排放源 总耗量 （公斤二氧化碳含量）2021 2020 2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年Diesel consumption from 固定源的柴油耗量stationary sources (litres) （升） – – – –Diesel consumption from 流动源的柴油耗量mobile sources (litres) （升） 30 90 80.07 240.2Gasoline consumption from 流动源的汽油耗量mobile sources (litres) （升） 1,372 3,732 3,119.03 8,484Natural gas consumption 天然气耗量(cubic meters) （立方米） – 13,713 – 30,060Power consumption of facilities 设施耗电量(kWh) （千瓦时） 1,435,820 2,055,061 1,195,015 1,720,148Total GHG emissions 温室气体的排放总量 – – 1,198,214 1,758,933Production volume (piece) 生产量（件） – – 86,174 193,120GHG emission intensity 温室气体排放密度 – – 13.9 9.1(kg carbon dioxide equivalent/piece)（公斤二氧化碳含量╱件）60 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.1.2 Use of Resources 3.1.2 资源使用The Group understands that the resources on the planet are limited, 集团明白地球上的资源有限，故therefore appropriate measures have been implemented to enhance the 推行适当措施以提升资源使用的efficiency of resources used, including: 效率，包括：Energy saving 节约能源In order to reduce energy consumption, the Group uses energy-efficient 为了减少能源的消耗，集团尽products and equipment as much as possible, and actively plans to replace 量使用能源效益较高的产品及equipment with high energy consumption, such as replacement of the 设备，积极计划更换高能耗的设factory’s traditional electric lights with LED lights in 2018. The air conditioning 备，如于二零一八年度将工厂内system uses a central control to effectively manage the temperature of each 的传统电灯更换成LED灯。空调department and automatic shutdown is scheduled at a specified time to 系统采用中央控制，有效管理各reduce additional energy consumption caused by uncontrolled temperature 部门的温度，并设定在指定时间adjustments. In addition, an employee’s code for energy saving has been 后自动关闭中央空调，以减少非formulated, which requires employees to turn off electrical devices in office 受控的温度调整而导致额外的能and production when off work, in order to ensure all machinery are shut 源消耗。此外，制定员工节约能down when out of working hours. The goal is to help employees nurture a 源守则，要求员工每天下班离开habit of “shutting down machinery when leaving workplace”. 工作位置时必须关闭办公及生产用电设备，确保所有机器在下班时都关掉。目标是养成员工“人走关机”的习惯。Water conservation 节约用水In addition to re-use of treated wastewater, the Group has adopted 除了循环使用经处理后的废水，various administrative measures to enhance water consumption efficiency. 集团亦采用多重的行政手段以提Wastewater is collected in daily operations and used for non-production 升用水效益。在日常营运中会收purposes, such as toilet flushing or floor cleaning. Inspection and timely repairs 集废弃水，用作一般非生产的用for leakage are conducted on water-consuming equipment in the production 途，如冲厕或冲洗地板等。对在workshops and offices to avoid water wastage. Also, water conservation 生产车间及办公室的用水设备，slogans are posted on bulletin boards to enhance employees’ awareness 进行检查并及时改善设备滴漏的of water conservation, and remind employees and visitors of water saving. 状况，防止滴漏浪费水资源。此During meetings, bottled water is replaced by reusable water containers to 外，在宣传栏张贴节约用水标change the unfavourable employees’ habit of using bottled water at meetings. 语，加强员工节约用水的意识，提醒员工及访客节约用水。在举办会议时，以可重用的盛水器皿取代瓶装水，改变员工在会议时使用瓶装水的坏习惯。Annual Report 2021 年报 61IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告The Group’s production site in Shenzhen has demonstrated the following 透过落实以上节约用水政策及措achievements in the reporting period through the implementation of the 施，集团的深圳生产基地在报告aforesaid policies and measures for water conservation: 期间已取得以下成效：Sources/types of water used Volume of water saved用水源头╱种类 节省用水量Re-use of treated production wastewater 3 cubic meters per month循环使用处理后的生产废水 3立方米╱月Wastewater used for flushing toilets and cleaning floors 3 cubic meters per month废弃水用作冲厕或冲洗地板 3立方米╱月Bottled water replaced by reusable water container in meeting 20 bottles per meeting可重用的盛水器皿取代瓶装水 20瓶水╱会议Saving of office resources 节约办公室资源Electronic documentation is promoted in daily operation, hardcopies are 在日常营运中提倡文件电子化，replaced by electronic files in computer and whenever possible paperless 使用计算机存盘代替纸质文件，office operation is implemented to reduce the use of paper consumables. 尽量实行无纸化办公，以减少纸The Group sets targets on paper usage, setting out expectations on paper 质办公用品的使用；并设定纸用saving for all departments. Employees are required to practice double-sided 量的目标指针，对集团各部门定printing. When copying or printing files, paper with only one side used should 下节约用纸的期望；要求员工纸be collected for re-use to save paper. The amount of paper used in 2021 张采用双面打印。在复印或打印decreased compared to 2020. 文件时，将单面用过的纸张回收再利用，节约用纸。二零二一年的用纸量较二零二零年减少。A summary of various key resources consumed by the Group’s operations 在报告期内，集团在运作期间所during the reporting period is as follows: 消耗的各种主要资源概列如下：Annual consumption (tons) Intensity per production unit全年总量（吨） 每生产单位的排放密度2021 2020 2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenGHG emission sources 温室气体的排放源 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳Electricity (kWh) 电力（千瓦时） 154,770 1,281,050 193,197 1,862,404 1.8 14.9 1 9.64Water (cubic meters) 水（立方米） 18 48,769 30 87,685 – 0.57 – 0.45Packaging materials 包装物料（纸材） N/A N/A N/A N/A(paper) (piece) （以个计算） 不适用 685,770 不适用 1,539,085 不适用 7.95 不适用 7.97Packaging materials 包装物料（胶材） N/A N/A N/A N/A(plastic) (piece) （以个计算） 不适用 40,122 不适用 921,572 不适用 0.466 不适用 4.7762 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.1.3 The Environment and Natural Resources 3.1.3 环境及自然资源The Group understands the environmental concerns from both community 集团了解社会及客户对环保议题and customers. The Company promotes policy on green manufacturing and 的关注，公司提倡绿色制造及绿green procurement policy: 色采购政策：Green procurement policy 绿色采购政策Subject to fulfillment of the Group’s operating and pricing requirements, 在符合集团营运要求及价格因素preference is given to suppliers who are able to provide environmentally 的情况下，优先选择能提供环保friendly products and/or services, including environmentally certified 产品及╱或服务的供应商，覆materials or services (such as RoHS and REACH compliant materials), use 盖有环保认证的物料或服务（如of products made of natural materials, products free of toxic and hazardous RoHS、REACH的合规物料），采substances, and other products/devices compliant with the relevant 用天然材料制造的产品，不含有environmental regulations. The Group has been actively promoting the 毒、有害物质的产品及其他符合proportion of environmental suppliers (the proportion of suppliers providing 环境相关法例要求的产品╱设备environmentally friendly materials to the total suppliers), with the goal that 等。集团积极提升环保供应商的the materials provided by suppliers are 100% RoHS compliant. 比重（提供环保物料的供应商占全部供应商的比例），目标是供应商提供的物料皆为100%符合RoHS的产品。Green manufacturing policy 绿色制造政策Since the Group’s business is the manufacturing of electronic products, the 因应集团业务为电子产品的制main environmental impacts are electronic waste generation and resource 造，主要的环境影响在电子废consumption during the production process. Therefore, a green manufacturing 物的产生及生产过程中的资源耗policy has been implemented along with the green procurement policy 用，故奉行绿色制造政策，配合to provide customers with environmental compliant products, including 绿色采购政策，向客户提供符合compliance with the local environmental laws for importing countries, such as 环保要求的产品，包括符合入RoHS, REACH. 口国当地的环保法例如RoHS、REACH等。The Group is committed to the use of energy-efficient and water-efficient 在制造的过程上，集团致力采用equipment in the manufacturing process. Resource recycling process is 节能节水的设备。设立资源回收established to collect the reusable packaging materials for proper handling, 过程，对可回收的包材进行回收in order to reduce waste generation and wastage of various production 处理，降低各种生产资源的浪resources. A sewage treatment plant treats wastewater from production 费，减少产生废弃物，并设有污to meet environmental standards, which is then is recycled to be used for 水处理池，将生产废水处理并当production or other purposes. This not only reduces wastewater discharge 达到环保标准后，再循环使用作but also decreases the total water consumption. 生产或其他用途，减少废水排放的同时又可节省总用水量。Annual Report 2021 年报 63IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告The Group has formulated day-to-day management measures to reduce and 集团制定日常管理措施以减少及control the emissions of hazardous wastes. Annual environmental trainings 控制有害废弃物的排放。每年提are provided to employees to enhance their environmental awareness and to 供环保培训予员工，提升他们的implement environmental management measures. 环保意识及落实环保管理措施。In addition, the Group regularly monitors its significant environmental 此外，集团定期对重大环境影响impacts to ensure compliance with local regulations. Regular environmental 的因素进行监测，确保遵守业务investigations are conducted to ensure timely discovery of non-compliance 当地的法例要求。定期进行环境incidents and implementation of corrective and preventive actions. 审核，及时发现不符合事项并且采取纠正与预防措施。3.2 Society 3.2 社会3.2.1 Employment 3.2.1 雇佣In addition to complying with local employment regulations, the Group has 集团除了遵守业务当地的雇佣条also formulated a series of employment policies to ensure that employees are 例要求，亦制定了一系列的雇佣treated in a fair and reasonable manner. 政策，保障雇员获得公平合理的对待。Recruitment and promotion 招聘及晋升The Group recruits employees through the company’s website, email, 集团通过公司网站、电邮、广告advertisements, etc., and gives equal opportunity to every job applicant. 等招聘员工，对每位工作应征者The Group does not reject applicants out of gender, age, race, and other 都给予平等的权利，绝不会因性physical conditions. Employment decisions are solely based on fulfilment of 别、年龄、种族及及其他身体状the job requirements, and the Group does not discriminate against physically 况拒绝应征者。聘请的决定都是disabled applicants. Besides local applicants, applicants of other ethnicities and 从符合工作要求的角度去考虑，nationalities are also considered at the time of recruitment, including ethnic 不会歧视身体有障碍的应征者。minorities and expatriates. 在招聘时，除了本地人的申请，还会考虑其他种族及国家的应征者，包括少数族裔和外籍人士。Regarding the mechanism for employee’s promotion, the Group only refers 对于员工的晋升机制，集团只会to the employee’s performance, experience and competence, and does not 参考员工的工作表现、经验及个consider other irrelevant attributes such as marital status, physical condition 人能力，不会考虑其他无关系的and gender, etc. 因素如婚姻、身体状况及性别等。64 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Wages and benefits 薪酬与福利The Group enters into a contract of employment with its employees 集团按业务当地的法例与员工签in accordance with local laws to ensure employees’ legal rights in the 定雇佣合约，保障员工在雇佣关employment relationship, including the payment of legal minimum wage, 系上的法定权益，包括确保最低and employees’ entitlement to paid holidays, vacation, sick leave and leave 工资的支付，员工依法享有带薪for work-related injury. In addition to the purchase of social insurance for 节日假期，病假和工伤假等。除employees according to local employment regulations, the Group also 了按当地的雇佣条例为员工购买purchases commercial insurance beyond the local regulations in order 社会保险，更为员工购买法例要to reduce employee’s cost of seeking for medical services. In case of 求以外的商业保险，降低员工使work-related injuries and accidents, the Group will arrange reasonable 用医疗服务的成本。遇到工伤事compensation for its employees and their families in accordance with laws. 故及意外时，集团会依法对员工及其家属安排合理赔偿。During the reporting period, the Group did not discover or receive any 在报告期内，集团并无发现或收violations or complaints regarding discrimination or recruitment. As of 31 到有关于歧视或招聘的违规事件December 2021, the total number and distribution of employees within the 或投诉个案。截至二零二一年Group are as follows: 十二月三十一日，集团内的员工总数及分布概述如下：Number of employees雇员人数2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenGender 性别 香港 深圳 香港 深圳Male 男性 1 121 3 143Female 女性 3 228 5 277Number of employees雇员人数2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenJob type 工作类别 香港 深圳 香港 深圳Full-time 全职 4 349 8 420Part-time 兼职 0 0 0 0Annual Report 2021 年报 65IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Number of employees雇员人数2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenAge 员工年龄 香港 深圳 香港 深圳18–30 18–30 0 9 0 2531–45 31–45 3 203 4 26446–60 46–60 1 135 4 131> 60 ＞ 60 0 2 0 0Total 总数 4 349 8 420Average monthly employee turnover rate (%)平均每月雇员流失率(%)2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenGender 性别 香港 深圳 香港 深圳Male 男性 0.167 0.017 5.56 0.87Female 女性 0.056 0.02 1.67 1.8Average monthly employee turnover rate (%)平均每月雇员流失率(%)2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenAge 员工年龄 香港 深圳 香港 深圳18–30 18–30 0 0.07 0 2.6731–45 31–45 0.11 0.02 2.08 1.5846–60 46–60 0 0.02 4.17 1.08> 60 ＞ 60 0 0 0 0Total average 总平均数 0.11 0.037 3.13 1.7866 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.2.2 Health and Safety 3.2.2 健康与安全The Group is committed to achieving the goal of zero work accidents 集团致力达致零工作意外的目through different measures to prevent the occurrence of occupational 标，以不同方面的措施防范员工diseases and work-related injuries and fatalities. 职业病与工业伤亡的发生。Workplace Safety Management 工作场所之安全管理The Group conducts annual safety monitoring to identify potential safety 集团进行年度安全监测工作，找hazards, and implement corrective and preventive actions in a timely manner. 出安全隐患，及时执行纠正及预The Group installed protective devices for the production equipment and 防措施。对工作场所的生产设备machinery in the workplace to ensure that employees are not exposed to 及机器，安装防护装置，确保员dangerous parts. The compliance of the workplace is monitored, including 工接触不到危险的部分。监控工the provision of adequate fire equipment and regular safety inspection. In 作场所的合规状况，包括配备足addition, suppliers are requested to follow safety practice within the Group’s 够的消防器材，并定期进行安全premises. All vehicles within the premises must be limited to the speed of 检查。此外，要求供货商在集团10 km/hour with no horns allowed. Their driving routes shall follow the 范围内进行安全操作，凡进入公instructions from the security team. 司的车辆一律限速每小时10公里以内，严禁鸣按喇叭，行驶路线须按值班保安调度。Employee Safety Training 员工安全培训The Group provides personal protective equipment to employees where 集团在必要时向员工提供个人防necessary, and arranges appropriate occupational health and safety trainings, 护装备，并安排适当的职业健康including the proper usage of protective equipment, awareness of safety 及安全培训，包括正确使用防护risks in the work place, content in the material safety data sheet and the 装备的方法，认识工作处所中的use, storage and emergency response to leakage of chemicals. The Group 安全风险，物质安全数据表的内also arranges fire and emergency drills regularly to train employees on the 容，化学品安全使用、储存、evacuation routes at dangerous situations. 泄漏应急等方面的培训。集团亦安排员工定期进行消防及应急演习，培训员工在危急时的逃生路线。Annual Report 2021 年报 67IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Work-life Balance 工作与生活的平衡The Group never forces employees to work overtime, and regularly 集团绝不会强迫员工超时工作，organises recreational activities, psychological counselling and trainings to help 并会定期举办娱乐活动、心理辅employees relieve stress, including psychological health seminars, family days, 导、培训等帮助员工减压，包括tug-of-wars, seaside walk, watching movies, hand-craft, and explores various 曾提供心理健康讲座、举办家庭sport activities amongst employees. 亲子日、拔河比赛、海滨徒步、观影、手工制作、开展各式各样的员工体育活动。In addition, the Group is very concerned about how employees view the 除此之外，集团非常关注员工对Company, therefore employees’ communication channels and suggestion 公司的意见，故制定员工沟通渠boxes have been set up. The suggestions collected from the employees are 道，设立员工意见收集箱，定期followed up on a regular basis. Employee representatives are selected from 对收集的员工意见跟进。在集团each department with the Group and they shall meet regularly for discussion 各部门选出员工代表，定期组织and sharing. 员工代表开会、讨论与交流。During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any violations against 在报告期间，集团没有发现违反the local occupational health and safety regulations. Within the reporting 当地职业健康及安全相关的法period, no work-related fatality and lost day due to work-related injury was 例。在报告期内，没有发现雇员found. 因工作关系而死亡。68 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.2.3 Development and Training 3.2.3 发展及培训The Group has established a comprehensive training system. Apart from 集团建立完善的培训体系，除了general classroom trainings, the Group emphasises on-the-job exercises and 一般的课堂培训外，集团强调工a mentor is assigned to every new employee. Through this apprenticeship 作实践，故安排指导工给每位新programme, the mentor gives hands-on guidance and supervises the new 员工，以“师带徒”的方式亲身指employee in accomplishing his/her work, which enhances training efficiency 导及监督新员工完成工作，提升and the new employee’s performance. Adjustments could be made to the 培训效益及新员工的绩效。“师带apprenticeship program according to the new employee’s competence and 徒”培训可以按新员工的不同能力experience. At the same time, based on the Group’s strategies for product 及经验水平作出弹性调整，同时and business development, career development plans are formulated for 因应产品开发与业务拓展策略，employees to support the sustainable development of the Group’s business. 对员工制定职业发展计划，及推动集团业务的持续发展。During the reporting period, the monthly average percentage of employees 在报告期间，集团内部接受培训who have received training within the Group and the monthly average 的雇员的每月平均百分比及每名number of trained hours received by each employee are as follows: 雇员的每月平均培训时数如下：Monthly average percentage of Monthly average number oftrained employees (%) trained hours per employee接受培训的雇员的每月平均百分比 每名雇员的每月平均培训时数2021 2020 2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenGender 性别 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳Male 男性 0 5.5 0 6.1 0 0 3 51Female 女性 0 37.6 0 7.1 0 45 0 55Monthly average percentage of Monthly average number oftrained employees (%) trained hours per employee接受培训的雇员的每月平均百分比 每名雇员的每月平均培训时数2021 2020 2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong Shenzhen Hong Kong ShenzhenEmployee level 雇员级别 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳 香港 深圳Senior management 高级管理层 0 12 0 13 0 10 0 10Middle management 中级管理层 8 8 8 8 8 11 8 11Junior employee 初级员工 0 6 0 6 0 58 0 58Annual Report 2021 年报 69IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.2.4 Labour Standards 3.2.4 劳工准则The Group strictly prohibits the employment of child labour and will only 集团严格禁止聘用童工，只会聘employ employees aged 18 or above. The Group follows the principle 请年满18岁或以上的员工，及奉of voluntary overtime to ensure that employees are willing to work and 行自愿加班原则，确保员工自愿employee’s personal freedom is protected. The Group is committed not to 工作，保障员工人身自由，承诺force employees to work overtime nor to work in any form of forced labour, 不强迫员工超时工作及不以任何including not using any bonded labours such as prison workers. 形式强迫雇员工作，包括不使用强迫劳动工如囚工等。For effective prevention of child labour, the applicant’s identity document 为了有效的防止童工，在招聘时will be carefully examined at the time of recruitment to confirm the age of 会仔细查看应征者的身份证明文the applicant, and the application from an applicant less than 18 years of age 件以确认应征者的年龄，会剔除shall be excluded. In addition, the Group’s personnel management system 未满18岁应征者的申请。此外，set up an alert function to signal any applicant under the age of 18. With this 集团的人事管理系统设置了年龄double gate-keeping mechanism, the risk of recruitment of child labour could 未满18岁的提醒功能，在此双重be avoided. Under the daily management, child labour will be terminated 查核的机制下避免误聘童工的风immediately when he/she is discovered within the Group. 险。在日常管理下如发现童工在集团内工作，将会立刻停止雇用。The Group has also set up measures to prevent forced labour. Employees 集团亦制定防止强制劳工的措are required to submit working hours to their immediate supervisors. The 施，员工需呈交工作时数予其直human resources department will review employees’ working hours, and 属上司，人力资源部查看员工的would investigate immediately and stop the relevant work assignment in case 工时记录，当发现不自愿超时情of involuntarily overtime identified. 况，会立刻调查，并制止不自愿的超时工作。During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any employment 在报告期间，集团未有发现聘用of child labour nor any violation against the laws and regulations related to 童工及违反强制性劳动相关的法forced labour. 律及法例。70 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.2.5 Supply Chain Management 3.2.5 供应链管理The Group has developed supplier management policy for communication 集团制定供货商管理政策及要to the suppliers the expectations of the Group and the requirements that 求，向供货商沟通集团的期望并they need to abide by. The policy covers quality, environmental management, 要求他们及其人员遵守。这些管health and safety, social responsibility, and anti-terrorism management, etc. 理政策覆盖的范围包括质量、环and these aspects are also the criteria for supplier selection. The Group 境管理、健康安全、社会责任、has established a supplier selection and evaluation procedure, which 反恐管理等多方面，而该等方面conducted an initial review of new suppliers and an annual evaluation of 亦是挑选供货商的准则。集团建key suppliers in the form of on-site audits or questionnaires. The contents 立了供货商选择及评审程序，对of the evaluation include product quality, delivery time, environment, use of 新供货商进行首次评审及对关键environmental friendly materials, and management of hazardous substances. 供货商进行年度评审，形式以现After the evaluation, results shall be recorded as monitoring evidence for the 场审核或调查表执行。评审内容subsequent long-term partnership. 包括产品质量、交货期、环境、环保物质使用、有害物质管理，评审后将结果形成记录作为日后长期合作伙伴的监控依据。Besides the aforesaid evaluation scope, procurement preference will be 除上述评审范围外，会优先考虑given to local suppliers over their non-local counterparts who demonstrated 有相同条件的本地供货商，在没the same performance level from evaluation. Non-local suppliers shall be 有合适的本地供货商时才会向外considered only when no qualified local supplier available. Currently, local 采购。目前本地供货商占大约suppliers account for approximately 73.1%. As of 31 December 2021, the 73.1%，截至二零二一年十二月geographical distribution of the Group’s suppliers is as follows: 三十一日，集团供货商的地理分布如下：Number of suppliersGeographical locations 地理区域 供货商数量2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年China 中国 51 114Hong Kong 香港 17 38USA 美国 1 2Taiwan 台湾 2 2Germany 德国 – –Other 其他 – –Annual Report 2021 年报 71IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告3.2.6 Product Responsibility 3.2.6 产品责任All products of the Group are subject to strict quality inspection/testing 集团所有产品在出厂前均须接受before shipping out of the factory, including the sampling and monitoring 严格的质量检测，包括来料抽样of hazardous substances in incoming materials such as 2011/65/EU the 监测有害物质如2011/65/EU电器management procedure for the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous 电子产品有害物质限制使用管理Substances in Electrical and Electronic Products, in-process quality control, 办法，过程中的质检控制，及最and safety verification of the final products. 终产品须接受的安全验证。For product promotion and selling, the Group will ensure that the product 所有产品在推广及销售时，集团information provided to the customer is true and accurate to avoid misleading 确保提供给客户的产品信息必须the customer at the time of purchase. The Group also has designated 是真实及准确，避免客户在购买customer service personnel responsible for responding to customer inquiries 时被误导。集团亦设有售后客户and initiating product recall when necessary. 服务专员，负责跟进客户的查询及必要时启动产品回收程序。The Group has formulated a complaint handling mechanism to analyse with 集团制定了投诉处理机制，在收the quality control department any complaints received from customers, and 到客户投诉后会与质量部一同分will report the results of analysis and follow-up actions to customers within 析个案，在指定期限内把分析结the specified time frame. 果及跟进工作向客户反映。During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any customer 在报告期间，集团未有顾客投诉complaint or violation against regulations related to product responsibility; 或发现违反产品责任相关的法and no item among all products sold was recalled due to product safety and 例；并且在已售产品总数中未有health reasons. 发现有产品因安全与健康理由而需要回收。72 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Quality Assurance Process 质量检定过程The Group starts the quality control of products at the source. Materials 集团对产品的质量控制由源头开from suppliers are verified for quality before production, alternatively the 始。供货商提供的物料在使用前supplier is requested to provide a quality verification report for raw materials. 会验收其质量，或要求供货商提During the manufacturing process, production lines are inspected and semi- 供原料的合格验收报告。在制造finished products are sampled for verification to assure the process meets the 过程中，巡查生产线和抽检半成specified technical requirements. Final verification shall be executed by the 品以确认过程符合相关的技术要quality control department at the end of production; only finished products 求。制造完成后由质量部进行成which pass the verification could be delivered and sold. 品检验，只有检验合格后方可出售货品。Upon identification of abnormal products through either external or internal 不管通过外部或内部的发现，当findings, the Group shall discuss amongst the relevant departments about the 集团确认异常产品，会与相关部need for identification, segregation and recall of the abnormal products when 门讨论对异常产品的标识、隔离necessary. Whenever product recall is necessary, the Group shall collect 及回收的必要性。如有回收的必the relevant batches of products from the customer, and implement the 要性，集团将会向客户回收相关procedure of nonconforming products for analysis and disposal. 批次的产品，并按不良品的程序分析及处理。Product Recall/Return Procedure 产品回收╱退货程序The Group has established a product recall/return channel that allow 集团制定了回收╱退货渠道，可customers to report product defects through telephone or email. Internal 让顾客致电或电邮阐述产品问staff in the Group shall then evaluate the decision on product return upon 题，集团内部相关人员在收到意receipt of customer’s report. Whenever product return is deemed necessary, 见后会评估产品退货的决定。若the marketing department shall inform the customer to return the relevant 须退货，市场部会通知顾客以退product. The warehouse department will record and track the returned 回相关产品。货仓部会将所有退products, and notify the quality department to conduct cause analysis in order 回的产品进行记录跟踪，并通知to identify solutions and subsequent preventive measures. 质量部进行原因分析，寻找解决方案及日后的预防措施。Annual Report 2021 年报 73IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Intellectual Property Protection 知识产权的维护All products sold by the Group are newly designed on our own. To confirm 集团出售的所有产品都是全新自intellectual property, products are regularly sampled to check if their designs 家设计。为了确认知识产权，会belong to the Group’s own companies. Upon discovery of designs that 定期抽查产品的设计是否由自家infringe copyright, the product will immediately be taken off shelves. 公司拥有。当发现有违权的设计，会立刻安排产品下架。The Group only adopts products from its own design centre, and the design 集团只会采用由自家设计中心的centre does not plagiarize the design of other institutions. Design department 产物，设计中心不会抄袭其他机employees are prohibited by their employment contracts from any acts 构的设计。在雇佣合约中，要求of plagiarism and are required to undertake that all produced designs are 设计部员工不容许有任何抄袭行company property and to assume responsibility for the confidentiality of their 为，且须承诺所有设计产物都属own produced designs. 公司资产及须对自己设计的产物承担保密责任。Currently, the Group has 5 product patents registered in the USA, 4 product 到目前为止，集团有5个产品专利patents registered in the European Union, 9 product patents registered in 在美国注册，有4个在欧盟注册，the PRC, and 1 product patent registered in Hong Kong. For management of 有9个在中国注册，有1个在香港information security, the Group has established a Knowledge Management 注册。在信息安全管理方面，集System (“KMS”) through which information of the Group’s own design and 团建立知识管理系统（“KMS”），product specifications from customers are encrypted to prevent data leakage. 自家设计与客户提供的产品规格等信息均透过此系统加密保护以防数据外泄。The Group undertakes not to purchase any pirated office software, and such 集团承诺不会购买任何盗版办公software shall only be purchased from suppliers who have the appropriate 软件，只从持有版权的供货商采copyright; in addition, the IT Department conducts internal audit to monitor 购；另外，信息科技部会进行内any download of pirated software by employees. When employees are 审，监察员工有否下载盗版软件discovered using pirated software, he/she will be instructed to delete the 的状况。如发现员工使用盗版软pirated software immediately and issued a warning letter for prevention of 件，会立即通知员工移除，并向recurrence. 其发出警告信防止再犯。74 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Privacy Protection of Consumer Information 消费者数据的隐私保障The Group has developed a policy for protection of consumer information 集团制定了消费者资料及隐私的and privacy. Consumer information will not be used for publicity or 保障政策，未经客户允许一概不promotion without consumer’s permission. If business operations require 会将客户数据用于公开宣传。如passing consumer data to contractors, the Group shall enter into a 在业务的运营上有需要将消费者confidentiality agreement with the contractor and require the contractor 资料交由承包商处理，集团会与to have a comprehensive information security management system for 承包商签定保密协议，并要求preventing leakage and theft of customer information. 承包商有完善的信息安全管理系统，以防客户数据外泄及被盗。3.2.7 Anti-corruption 3.2.7 反贪污The Group has established corporate governance policies in accordance with 集团按照联交所企业管理守则，the CG Code from the Stock Exchange. Also, the Group has formulated 制定企业管治政策；并制定反贪an anti-corruption policy and prohibits the Company’s Directors, managers, 污政策，禁止公司董事、经理、employees and other representatives from giving or accepting bribes. 员工及其他代表赠送或收授贿赂。Internal Audit of Corporate Governance 企业管治内部审核The Group has established an AC which is responsible for developing internal 集团设有审计委员会，负责制定audit control procedures and annual audit plans for the Group. The AC 集团内部审计管制程序及年度审conducts audits in an ongoing and systematic manner in accordance with the 计计划，根据年度审计计划及领annual audit plan and the additional tasks delegated by the top management. 导层额外公布的工作任务，持续Audit reports are regularly communicated with the management and 有序开展审计项目。审计报告定disclosed to the AC. Corrective actions and subsequent follow-ups shall be 期与管理层进行沟通并向审计委implemented in accordance with the time frame specified in the audit report. 员会披露，根据审计报告规定的时间整改及进行后续跟进。Moreover, the Group engages an independent third party to audit the 此外，集团聘用独立第三方审计Group’s financial accounts, to ensure the Company’s accounts are clear and 集团的财务账目，确保公司的账accurate for enhancement of internal financial control and supervision so that 目分明准确，加强内部财务控制the interests of shareholders are protected. 度与监督，以保障股东的权益。Annual Report 2021 年报 75IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Environmental, Social and Governance Report环境、社会及管治报告Anti-corruption Awareness Training 反贪意识培训The Group declares its internal code of integrity at least once a year with an 集团每年至少一次宣布企业内部emphasis on the awareness of corporate integrity; this includes the principle 诚信准则，强调企业诚信意识，that the Group never owes compensation, benefits and bonuses to its 包括从不拖欠员工薪酬、福利及employees and never owes payments to its suppliers. Also, additional effort is 奖金；不拖欠供货商货款，并特made to strengthen the awareness of anti-corruption to key departments and 别对关键部门与岗位加强反贪意positions. The Group communicates anti-corruption and integrity through 识。在集团内通过热线、网站、hotline, website and posters, and has established investigation channel for 海报等沟通企业反贪诚信，并设employees to report suspected fraud or corruption and other illegal incidents 置调查渠道供员工举报疑似舞弊such as extortion and money laundering. 或贪污及其他违法事件如勒索、洗黑钱等。Whistle-blowing Procedure 举报程序The Group has a whistle-blowing mechanism and communication channel for 集团设有举报机制及沟通渠道，employees, customers and suppliers to freely report on any fraud, corruption 供员工、客户及供货商自由举报and other illegal incidents. The reporting person may send a written message 关于任何舞弊、贪污或其他违法to the mailbox of IA in confidence and with anonymity. Upon receipt, the IA 事件，举报人士可以保密及匿名shall conduct investigation with other relevant departments such as human 的书面方式发送至内审部邮箱，resources, legal, logistics and career development, and then revert with the 收到后内审部与其他相关部门如investigation results to the reporting person. 人力、法务、物流及事业发展部门进行调查，把调查结果反馈给举报人士。Anti-corruption Measures 反贪措施In addition, the Group has established anti-corruption measures for various 除此以外，集团制定不同范畴的aspects, including the declaration of personal interests by new employees 反贪措施；包括新员工在入职时upon commencing employment. Further, Directors are required to declare 需申报个人利益。另外，董事也according to the law their own interests including those in the competition 按法律规定申报其董事权益及在business; regarding procurement, evaluation from at least three suppliers is 竞争业务中拥有的权益。对于采required to obtain fair and reliable quotes for making procurement decision; 购管控，要求收集至少三家供货for approval of service contracts, different levels of personnel are authorized 商的评估资料才作出采购决定，corresponding to different levels of contract amount in order to ensure 确保公平公正的采购报价。对于adequate review. 服务合约的审批，针对不同的合约金额授权不同级别的审批人，以确保足够的查核。During the reporting period, the Group did not discover any legal cases or 在报告期间，集团未有发现与贪complaints related to corruption. 污相关的违例案件或投诉。76 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书The Directors of the Company are pleased to present to the shareholders the annual 本公司董事会欣然向各股东呈览本集团截至report and audited financial statements of the Group during the year ended 31 December 二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度（“二零2021 (“FY2021” or the “Year” and for the year ended 31 December 2020, “FY2020”). 二一年年度”或“本年度”）及截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度（“二零二零年年度”）之年报及经审核财务报表。PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 主要业务The Company acts as an investment holding company. Its principal subsidiaries are engaged 本公司乃一间投资控股公司。各主要附属公in investment holdings, design, development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of 司从事投资控股、设计、开发、制造、市场lifestyle electronic products. Details of the principal activities of the Group are set out in 推广及分销时尚生活电子产品。本集团主要note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 业务之详情载于本年报综合财务报表附注1。REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION 收益及分部资料Details of revenue and segment information are set out in note 6 to the consolidated 收益分部资料详情载于本年报综合财务报表financial statements contained in this annual report. 附注6。RESULTS 业绩The results of the Group for FY2021 are set out in the consolidated statement of profit or 本集团于二零二一年年度之业绩载于本年报loss and other comprehensive income included in this annual report and further analysis is 之综合损益及其他全面收益表，进一步分析given in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 则载于随附之综合财务报表附注。DIVIDENDS 股息No interim dividend was paid for FY2021 (FY2020: nil). 本公司并无于二零二一年年度派付中期股息（二零二零年年度：无）。The Directors do not recommend the distribution of a final dividend for FY2021 (FY2020: 董事会不建议就二零二一年年度派发末期股nil). 息（二零二零年年度：无）。GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY 集团财务概要A summary of the results and of the assets and liabilities of the Group for the last five 本集团过去五个财政年度之业绩及资产与负financial years is set out in the section headed “Group Financial Summary” of this annual 债概要载于本年报“集团财务概要”一节。report.SHARE CAPITAL 股本Details of movements in the share capital of the Company during FY2021 are set out in 本公司于二零二一年年度股本之变动详情载note 26 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 于本年报综合财务报表附注26。Annual Report 2021 年报 77IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书RESERVES 储备Details of movements in reserves of the Group and of the Company during the Year are 本集团及本公司于本年度内储备之变动详情set out in the consolidated statement of changes in equity contained in this annual report, 载于本年报之综合权益变动表及本年报综合and the financial information of the Company in note 35 to the consolidated financial 财务报表附注35之本公司财务资料。statements contained in this annual report.DISTRIBUTABLE RESERVES 可供分派储备At 31 December 2021, the Company did not have reserves available for distribution as 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，根据百慕大calculated in accordance with the provisions of the laws of Bermuda. 法律条文计算，本公司并无可供分派储备。PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 物业、机器及设备During FY2021, the Group did not make any spending (FY2020: approximately HK$0.3 本集团于二零二一年年度并无就业务扩充购million) on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment for the purpose of business 置物业、机器及设备之支出（二零二零年年expansion. 度：约港币0.3百万元）。Details of movements in property, plant and equipment of the Group during the Year are 本集团于本年度内物业、机器及设备之变动set out in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 详情载于综合财务报表附注14。MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS 主要客户及供货商During FY2021, the aggregate percentage of purchases attributable to the Group’s five 于二零二一年年度，向本集团五大供货商于largest suppliers in the Year accounted for approximately 41.7% of the Group’s purchases 本年度之采购货额合共占本集团之采购额约and the purchases attributable to the largest supplier accounted for approximately 18.2% 41.7%，而向最大供货商之采购额则占本集团of the Group’s purchases. 之采购额约18.2%。During FY2021, the aggregate percentage of turnover attributable to the Group’s five 于二零二一年年度，本集团五大客户之营业largest customers was approximately 62.1% of the Group’s turnover and the percentage 额合共占本集团之营业额约62.1%，而来自本of turnover attributable to the Group’s largest customer was approximately 21.0% of the 集团最大客户之营业额则占本集团之营业额Group’s turnover. 约21.0%。None of the Directors, their associates or shareholders of the Company, who to the 各董事、彼等之联系人士或据董事所知拥有knowledge of the Directors own more than 5% of the Company’s share capital, had any 本公司5%以上股本之本公司股东，概无在任interest in any of the five largest customers. 何五大客户中拥有任何权益。78 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书DIRECTORS 董事The Directors who held office during FY2021 and up to the date of this report are: 于二零二一年年度及直至本报告日期之本公司在任董事如下：Executive Director: 执行董事：Zhu Yongning (Chief Executive Officer) 朱永宁（首席执行官）Non-Executive Director: 非执行董事：Cui Xiao 崔啸Independent Non-Executive Directors: 独立非执行董事：Zhou Meilin 周美林Zhou Rui 周锐Xu Jinwen 徐锦文In accordance with Bye-Law 89 of the Company’s Bye-Laws, any Director appointed 根据本公司章程细则第89条，额外获委任加as an additional Director or to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office only until the next 入董事会或填补临时空缺之任何董事将仅任following annual general meeting (the “AGM”) of the Company and shall be eligible for re- 职直至本公司下届股东周年大会（“股东周年election but shall not be taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of 大会”），届时将合资格在会上获重选连任，Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting. 惟于厘定应于该股东大会轮值告退的董事人选或董事数目时不应被计入在内。The Company has received an annual confirmation of independence from each of the 本公司已接获各独立非执行董事根据联交所Independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the Listing Rules on the 上市规则第3.13条之规定每年作出之独立确认Stock Exchange. The Company considers all the Independent Non-Executive Directors as 书。本公司视所有独立非执行董事属独立。independent.DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHY 董事之履历Biographical details of the existing Directors are set out in the section of “Directors and 现任董事之履历详情载于本年报“本集团董事Senior Management of the Group” contained in this annual report. 及高级管理层”一节。Annual Report 2021 年报 79IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS 董事服务合约Each of the Independent Non-Executive Directors has entered into a service contract with 各独立非执行董事亦已与本公司订立服务合the Company for a term of three years which can be terminated by either party giving a 约，任期三年，可由其中一方向另一方发出three month’s written notice to the other party. Under such service contract, each of the 三个月之书面通知予以终止。根据该服务合Independent Non-Executive Directors is subject to retirement by rotation at the AGM of 约，各独立非执行董事须遵照本公司章程细the Company in accordance with the Company’s Bye-Laws, and is entitled to a fee subject 则于本公司股东周年大会上轮值告退。各独to such adjustments as the Board of the Company considers appropriate and the approval 立非执行董事有权收取袍金，此袍金可由本of the shareholders at AGM of the Company. Remuneration shall be paid to a Director for 公司董事会认为适当时予以调整，惟调整需appointment as a member of a particular committee. 于本公司股东周年大会上经股东批准。如董事获委任为个别委员会之成员，其将获发薪酬。None of the Directors has a service contract which is not determinable by the Group 董事概无订立任何于一年内若无赔偿（法定赔within one year without payment of compensation, other than statutory compensation. 偿除外）则不可由本集团终止之服务合约。DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS OF SIGNIFICANCE 董事于重要合约之权益There were no contracts of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries 本公司或其任何附属公司于本年度年终或本was a party and in which a Director had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, 年度任何时间概无订立董事于其中直接或间which subsisted at the end of the Year or at any time during the Year. 接拥有重大权益之重要合约。MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS 管理合约No contracts concerning the management and administration of the whole or any 于二零二一年年度概无签订或存在任何有关substantial part of the business of the Company were entered into or in existence during 本公司全部或重要部分业务之管理及行政合FY2021. 约。DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN COMPETING BUSINESS 董事于具竞争性业务之权益Save as disclosed herein, during the Year, none of the Directors or their respective associates 除本文所披露者外，于本年度，概无董事或had engaged in or had any interest in any business which competes or may compete with 彼等各自的联系人参与任何与或可能与本集the businesses of the Group. 团业务构成竞争的业务或于其中拥有任何权益。80 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SECURITIES 董事之证券权益The Directors or chief executives of the Company or any of their associates had, as at 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本公司董事31 December 2021, any interests or short positions in the shares, underlying shares and 及首席执行官以及彼等之任何联系人士，于本debentures of the Company or any of its associated corporations (within the meaning 公司或其任何相联法团（定义见证券及期货条of Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance (“SFO”)) which were notified to the 例（“证券及期货条例”）第XV部）之股份、相关Company and the Stock Exchange pursuant to Divisions 7 and 8 of Part XV of the SFO 股份及债权证中，拥有根据证券及期货条例(including interests or short positions which they were taken or deemed to have under the 第XV部第7及8分部须知会本公司及联交所（包provisions of the SFO) or which were recorded in the register required to be kept by the 括根据该等证券及期货条例条文被当作或视Company under section 352 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company and the 作拥有之权益或淡仓）或本公司根据证券及期Stock Exchange pursuant to the Model Code. 货条例第352条须予备存之登记册所记录或根据标准守则须知会本公司及联交所之任何权益或淡仓。No. of % of the issuedName Nature of interests shares held shared capital姓名 权益性质 所持股份数目 占已发行股本百分比Zhu Yongning (Note 1) The interests of the controlled corporation 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%(Note 2)朱永宁（附注1） 所控制的法团的权利 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%（附注2）Notes: 附注：(1) Zhu Yongning holds 100% of the equity interests of China Huaneng Foundation Construction (1) 朱永宁持有中国华能基础建设投资有限公司Investment Ltd (“Huaneng”). Therefore, it is deemed to be interested in the interest in the （“华能”）100%股本权益，因而被视为通过shares of the Company held by Huaneng through its subsidiary. 其附属公司拥有华能所持有本公司股份的权益。(2) The letter “L” denotes the shareholder’s long position in the shares. (2) “L”代表董事在此等股份中所持之好仓。SHARE OPTION SCHEME 购股权计划The effective share option scheme (the “2012 Share Option Scheme”) was adopted by 本公司现时有效的购股权（“二零一二年购股the Company on 29 August 2012. During FY2021, no share was granted, exercised, lapsed 权计划”）于二零一二年八月二十九日采纳。or cancelled under the 2012 Share Option Scheme. As at 31 December 2021, there was 于二零二一年年度，根据二零一二年购股no outstanding share option of the Company. 权计划，概无任何购股权被授予、获行使、失效或被取消。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本公司并无尚未行使的购股权。Annual Report 2021 年报 81IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书DIRECTORS’ RIGHT TO ACQUIRE SHARES OR DEBENTURES 董事购买股份或债权证之权利No share options were granted to or exercised by the Directors during FY2021 and there is 于二零二一年年度董事并无获授或行使购股no outstanding balance as at 31 December 2021. 权及于二零二一年十二月三十一日并无尚未行使之购股权。Save as disclosed above, at no time during FY2021 was the Company or any of its 除上文所披露者外，于二零二一年年度，本subsidiaries a party to any arrangements to enable the Directors or their respective spouse 公司或其任何附属公司概无参与任何安排，or children under the age of 18 to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, 使董事或其个别之配偶或十八岁以下之子女or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate. 可藉购买本公司或任何其他法人团体之股份或债权证而获得利益。SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS 主要股东As at 31 December 2021, the following persons (other than the Directors or the chief 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，除本公司董executives of the Company) had interests or short positions in the shares and underlying 事或首席执行官外，下列人士于本公司之股份shares of the Company as recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company 及相关股份中，拥有本公司根据证券及期货under section 336 of the SFO or as otherwise notified to the Company: 条例第336条须予备存之登记册所记录或须知会本公司之权益或淡仓：No. of % of the issuedshares held shared capitalName 名称 所持股份数目 占已发行股本百分比China Huaneng Foundation Construction 中国华能基础建设投资 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%Investment Ltd 有限公司 (Note 4)（ 附注4）Zhu Yongning (Note 1) 朱永宁（附注1） 753,997,995 (L) 29.00%(Note 4)（ 附注4）Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology 江苏宏图高科技股份 556,898,770 (L) 21.42%Co., Ltd (Note 2) 有限公司（附注2） (Note 4)（ 附注4）Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology 江苏宏图高科技（香港）股份 556,898,770 (L) 21.42%(Hong Kong) Co. Limited (Note 3) 有限公司（附注3） (Note 4)（ 附注4）Hongtu High Technology Int’l Inc. Hongtu High Technology Int’l Inc. 556,898,770 (L) 21.42%(Note 4)（ 附注4）82 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书Notes: 附注：(1) Zhu Yongning holds 100% of the equity interests of China Huaneng Foundation Construction (1) 朱永宁持有中国华能基础建设投资有限公司Investment Ltd (“Huaneng”). Therefore, it is deemed to be interested in the interest in the （“华能”）100%股本权益，因而被视为通过shares of the Company held by Huaneng through its subsidiary. 其附属公司拥有华能所持有本公司股份的权益。(2) Jiangsu Hongtu High Technology Co., Ltd. holds 100% of the equity interests of Jiangsu (2) 江苏宏图高科技股份有限公司持有江苏宏图Hongtu High Technology (Hong Kong) Co. Limited (“Hongtu (HK)”). Therefore, it is deemed 高科技（香港）股份有限公司（“宏图（香港）”）to be interested in the interest in the shares of the Company held by Hongtu (HK) through its 100%股本权益，因而被视为通过其附属公司subsidiary (see note 3 below). （见下文附注3）拥有宏图（香港）所持本公司股份的权益。(3) Hongtu (HK) holds 100% of the issued share of Hongtu High Technology Int’l Inc. (“Hongtu (3) 宏图（香港）持有Hongtu High Technology(Seychelles)”). Therefore, Hongtu (HK) is deemed to be interested in the 556,898,770 shares Int’l Inc.（ “Hongtu (Seychelles)”）之已发行股of the Company beneficially owned by Hongtu (Seychelles) by virtue of its shareholding of 份100%。因此，宏图（香港）因持有HongtuHongtu (Seychelles). (Seychelles)之股权而被视为拥有Hongtu(Seychelles)实益拥有的本公司556,898,770股股份之权益。(4) The letter “L” denotes the shareholder’s long position in the shares. (4) “L”代表股东在此等股份中所持之好仓。Save as disclosed above, the Company had not been notified by any person (other than 除上文所披露者外，于二零二一年十二月the Directors or chief executives of the Company) who had interests or short positions 三十一日，本公司并无接获任何人士（本公司in the shares and underlying shares of the Company as at 31 December 2021 which 董事或首席执行官除外）知会，彼于本公司之股were required to be disclosed to the Company under Part XV of the SFO or which were 份及相关股份中，拥有根据证券及期货条例recorded in the register required to be kept by the Company under section 336 of the 第XV部须向本公司披露或本公司根据证券及SFO. 期货条例第336条须予备存之登记册所记录之权益或淡仓。Annual Report 2021 年报 83IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES, OPTIONS, WARRANTS OR SIMILAR RIGHTS 可转换证券、购股权、认股权证或类似权利The Company had no outstanding convertible securities, options, warrants or similar rights 本公司于二零二一年十二月三十一日概无任at 31 December 2021. 何尚未行使之可转换证券、购股权、认股权证或类似权利。There was no issue or exercise of any convertible securities, options, warrants or similar 于二零二一年年度，本公司并无任何可转换rights of the Company during FY2021. 证券、购股权、认股权证或类似权利获发行或行使。REMUNERATION POLICY 薪酬政策Details of the Group’s remuneration policy are set out in the section of “Management 本集团之薪酬政策详情载于本年报之“管理层Discussion and Analysis” contained in this annual report. 讨论及分析”一节。MODEL CODE FOR SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS 证券交易之标准守则The Company has adopted its own Code of Conduct for Securities Transactions by 本公司已采纳其自有董事证券交易之行为守Directors (the “Code of Conduct for Securities Transactions”). This is on terms no less 则（“证券交易之行为守则”），其条款与上市exacting than the required standard set out in the Model Code as set out in Appendix 10 规则附录十所载之标准守则所规定之交易标to the Listing Rules, and has been updated from time to time. 准同样严谨，且不时更新。Having made specific enquiries to all Directors, all Directors confirmed that they had 向全体董事作出特定查询后，全体董事确认complied with the required standards set out in the Model Code and the Code of 彼等已于整个二零二一年年度遵守标准守则Conduct for Securities Transactions throughout FY2021. 及证券交易之行为守则所载之标准。The Board members have been reminded of their obligation to comply with the Model 董事会成员获提醒其有义务遵守标准守则及Code and the Code of Conduct for Securities Transactions. 证券交易之行为守则。84 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 企业管治The Group’s corporate governance principles and practices are set out in the Corporate 有关本集团之企业管治原则及常规已列载于Governance Report contained in this annual report. 本年报之企业管治报告书内。PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF THE COMPANY’S LISTED 购买、出售或赎回本公司之上市证券SECURITIESDuring FY2021, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries purchased, sold or 于二零二一年年度，本公司或其任何附属公redeemed any of the Company’s listed securities. 司概无购买、出售或赎回本公司任何上市证券。PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS 优先购买权There are no provisions for pre-emptive rights under the Company’s Bye-Laws or the laws 本公司章程细则或百慕大法例并无有关本公of Bermuda which would oblige the Company to offer new shares on a pro-rata basis to 司须按比例向现有股东发售新股份之优先购existing shareholders. 买权之规定。SUFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC FLOAT 足够公众持股量Based on the information that is publicly available to the Company and within the 于本报告书之日期，根据本公司获得之公开knowledge of the Directors as at the date of this report, the Company has maintained 资料及就董事所知悉，本公司于整个二零sufficient public float throughout FY2021 as required under the Listing Rules. 二一年年度内已维持上市规则所规定之足够公众持股量。AUDITOR 核数师Mazars CPA Limited (the “Auditor” or Mazars”) was appointed as auditors of the 中审众环（香港）会计师事务所有限公司（“核Company with effect from 27 September 2019 to fill vacancy and was re-elected in the 数师”或“中审众环”）自二零一九年九月AGMs of the Company held on 24 July 2020 and 25 June 2021 and will be subject to re- 二十七日起获委任为本公司核数师以填补空appointment in the forthcoming AGM. 缺，并于本公司于二零二零年七月二十四日及二零二一年六月二十五日举行的股东周年大会上获重选为本公司核数师，且将于应届股东周年大会上获续聘。Annual Report 2021 年报 85IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 审阅财务报表The Company has established an AC for the purposes of reviewing and providing 本公司已成立审核委员会，以审阅及监察本supervision over the financial reporting process and internal controls of the Group. As at 集团之财务申报程序及内部监控。于二零31 December 2021, the AC comprises all three Independent Non-Executive Directors of 二一年十二月三十一日，审核委员会由本公the Company. 司全体三名独立非执行董事组成。The audited financial results of the Group for FY2021 have been reviewed by the AC. 本集团于二零二一年年度的经审核财务业绩已经审核委员会审阅。THE BOARD’S RESPONSE TO THE AUDITOR’S OPINION 董事会对核数师意见之回复Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 不发表意见之基准The auditor of the Company, being Mazars, issued a disclaimer of opinion (the “Disclaimer 本公司核数师中审众环，就本公司于二零of Opinion”) on the financial statements of the Company for FY2021 in relation to going 二一年年度之财务报表出具不发表意见（“不concern of the Company, details of which are set out in note 2 to the consolidated 发表意见”），内容有关本公司之持续经营，financial statements contained in this annual report. 其详细资料载于本年报综合财务报表附注2。With respect to the Disclaimer of Opinion, the Directors are of the opinion that the 就不发表意见而言，经计及本年报综合财务Group will have sufficient working capital to finance its operations and to meet its financial 报表附注2所载措施（“措施”），董事认为本集obligations for at least the next 12 months from the date of approval of the consolidated 团将拥有充足营运资金拨付其经营及履行综financial statements, after taking into consideration of the measures (the “Measures”) set 合财务报表批准日期起至少十二个月的财务out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual report. 责任。However, as stated in the independent auditor’s report contained in this annual report, 然而，如本年报独立核数师报告所载，核数the Auditor is of the view that it has not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate 师认为就于编制综合财务报表时使用持续经audit evidence regarding the use of going concern assumption in the preparation of the 营假设而言尚无法取得充分适当审计证据。consolidated financial statements.86 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书Board’s Response to “Disclaimer of Opinion – Going Concern” 董事会对“不发表意见－持续经营”之回复The board (the “Board”) of Directors would like to provide certain additional and update 董事会（“董事会”）希望就不发表意见提供若information in relation to the Disclaimer of Opinion: 干补充及更新资料：1. China Huaneng Foundation Construction Investment Limited (“Huaneng”), the 1. 本公司最大股东中国华能基础建设投资largest shareholder of the Company and its substantial shareholder, have committed 有限公司（“华能”）及其主要股东已承诺and have proved their ability to provide continuous financial support to the Group as 并证明其有能力于必要时为本集团提供is necessary to enable the Group to meet its day-to-day operations and its financial 持续财务支持，以使本集团能够进行日obligations as they fall due. 常营运及履行到期的财务责任。With respect to this, the Board and the AC are satisfied that Huaneng has the 就此而言，董事会及审核委员会确信，financial ability to provide financial support to the Company to enable it to meet its 华能有财务能力向本公司提供财务支financial obligations as and when they fall due on the following basis: 持，使其能够按以下方式履行其到期的财务责任：While the net current liabilities of the Group amounted to approximately HK$252.4 尽管本集团截至二零二一年十二月million as of 31 December 2021, it should be noted that it included, among others, 三十一日的流动负债净额约为港币252.4a loan from a shareholder (i.e. Huaneng) which was classified as current liabilities 百万元，但应注意的是，其中包括（其amounted to HK$203.7 million. Accordingly, the net current liabilities of the Group, 中包括）被归类为流动负债的股东（即华if the loan from Huaneng is disregarded, would be mitigated to a lesser amount of 能）贷款港币203.7百万元。因此，倘不approximately HK$48.7 million. 考虑华能的贷款，本集团的流动负债净额将减少至约港币48.7百万元。Annual Report 2021 年报 87IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书2. Huaneng has undertaken that the repayment of its loan to the Group of 2. 华能承诺，自综合财务报表批准之日起approximately HK$203.7 million as at 31 December 2021 will not be requested 十二个月内，将不会要求于二零二一年within twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial 十二月三十一日偿还其向本集团的贷款statements, unless the Group has obtained funding from other sources and is in a 约港币203.7百万元，除非本集团已自其position to meet all repayment obligations at that time. 他来源获得融资且当时能够履行所有还款责任。With respect to this, the Board understood the Auditor’s concern that Huaneng’s 就此而言，董事会理解核数师的担忧，advance to the Company may still be repayable upon demand. However, the Board 即华能向本公司垫付的款项仍可应要求considers that Huaneng, as the largest shareholder of the Company, will comply 偿还。然而，董事会认为，华能作为本with its undertaking and will not demand for repayment in breach of its undertaking 公司的最大股东，将遵守其承诺，不会for the following reasons: 因下列原因违反承诺而要求偿还款项：(a) Huaneng has demonstrated its commitment to provide financial support and (a) 华能已表明提供财务支持的承provided loan to the Company in the amount of HK$121.5 million in 2020 诺，并于二零二零年及二零二一and HK$203.7 million in 2021. As such, the loan provided to the Company 年分别向本公司提供贷款港币by Huaneng was not a random one, but a commitment to the long-term 121.5百万元及港币203.7百万元。development of the Group by and as a substantial shareholder. 因此，华能向本公司提供的贷款并非随机提供，而是由一名主要股东及作为一名主要股东对本集团长远发展的承诺。(b) Huaneng, as the largest shareholder, would not be incentivised to demand (b) 除非本集团已自其他来源获得融repayment from Company unless the Group has obtained funding from other 资且当时能够履行所有还款责sources and is in a position to meet all repayment obligations at that time. 任，否则华能作为最大的股东将不会受利益驱使而要求本公司还款。88 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书3. The Group continues to improve the operating efficiency by implementing measures 3. 为增强其盈利能力并提高其未来经营活to tighten cost controls over various operating expenses in order to enhance its 动现金流量，本集团将继续透过采取措profitability and to improve the cash flow from its operation in future. 施加强对各种经营开支之成本控制而提高经营效率。With respect to this, the Board understood the Auditor’s concern on the efficiency 就此而言，董事会理解核数师对成本控of cost control measures. However, the Board is optimistic that such cost control 制措施有效性之担忧。然而，董事会对measures would be effective. The Board would like to draw the shareholders’ 该等成本控制措施将属有效保持乐观。attention to the following: 董事会将就以下事项敦请股东注意：(a) The Board has appointed a team, which is led by the chief executive officer of (a) 董事会已委任一个团队（其由本the Company, to monitor the daily cashflow so as to ensure the Group has 公司首席执行官领导）监控日常现sufficient financial resources to settle the Group’s financial obligation when fall 金流量，从而确保本集团有足够due. 的财务资源以结清本集团的到期财务责任。(b) The Group’s cost control measure has shown positive impact in 2021. (b) 本集团的成本控制措施已于二零For example, general administrative expenses for FY2021 had reduced by 二一年显示出积极影响。举例而approximately 7.9%. 言，一般行政开支于二零二一年年度已减少约7.9%。(c) The costs control measures already implemented by the Group since 2019 (c) 本集团已自二零一九年起实施成is expected to continue in 2022, which will include, without limitation, 本控制措施，其预期将于二零improving the efficiency on the supply chain of the Group, with a view to 二二年继续实施。该等措施将包enhance the profitability and improve the cash flow of the Group. 括（但不限于）提高本集团供应链效率以及增强本集团的盈利能力及提升现金流量。Annual Report 2021 年报 89IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书4. The Group continues to negotiate with/seek opportunities from financial institutions 4. 本集团就重续现有╱开始新融资安排继for the renewal of existing/inception of the new financing arrangement to meet the 续与融资机构进行磋商╱向融资机构寻Group’s working capital and financial requirements in the future. 求机会，从而达致本集团未来营运资金及财务要求。5. The Group is actively exploring the availability of alternative source of financing. 5. 本集团正积极探讨其他融资来源。With respect to this, the Board understood the Auditor’s concern that there is no 就此而言，董事会理解核数师关于并无definite legal agreement for securing alternative source of financing. However, the 确切法律协议以确保其他融资来源之担Board will make endeavours to seek financing and is negotiating to seek bank loans 忧。然而，董事会将致力于寻求融资且and possibly equity financing by issuing shares for cash. 正协商寻求银行贷款及通过发行股份获取现金以获得可能的股本融资。6. The documents/information requested by the Auditor to assess the ability of the 6. 核数师所要求的用于评估本公司持续经Company to continue as going concern are: (1) a cashflow forecast of the Group; 营能力的文件╱资料为：(1)本集团现金and (2) a letter of undertaking signed by Huaneng and Mr. Zhu. 流量预测；及(2)华能及朱先生签署的承诺函。The Action Plan of the Group 本集团的行动计划It is the plan of the Board to continue the Measures above in the year ending 31 截至二零二二年十二月三十一日止年度，董December 2022. Moreover, subsequent to FY2021, the following action plans have been 事会计划将继续进行上述措施。此外，于二implemented to further improve the financial situation and cashflow of the Group: 零二一年年度后，本集团已实施下列行动计划，以进一步改善其财务状况及现金流量：1. Provision of shareholder’s loan 1. 提供股东贷款Provision of further loan capital by Huaneng to the Group continued as Huaneng 华能继续向本集团提供进一步贷款资had further made net advancements in the sum of approximately RMB13.0 million to 本，原因为华能于二零二二年四月向本the Group in April 2022. It is expected that Huaneng, being the largest shareholder 集团进一步作出垫款净额约人民币13.0of the Company, will continue to provide financial support from time to time to the 百万元。预期本公司最大股东华能将不Group. 时继续向本集团提供财务支持。2. Cost control measures 2. 成本控制措施From the end of FY2021 till the date of this annual report, the Company has 二零二一年年度末至本年报日期，本公strictly controlled its selling and administrative expenses such as by closing local and 司已通过关闭当地及境外暂无营业公司overseas dormant companies for saving administrative costs of the Group. 等措施严格其控制其销售及行政开支，以节省本集团行政成本。90 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书3. Marketing campaigns 3. 营销活动The management noted that the customers of the Group are still loyal to the 管理层注意到，本集团之客户仍热衷于brands of the Group, and hence believes that there will be a significant growth in 本集团的品牌，因此，管理层相信一旦the Company’s business once the economic activities go back to normal levels. A 经济活动恢复正常，本公司之业务将会series of marketing campaigns will be launched to acquire new customers and bring 有显著增长。我们将开展一系列营销活back previous customers of the Group, plus the launch of the new products of the 动以吸引新客户及本集团的老客户，此Group which will be focused on wearable technologies in healthcare such as health 外，将推出本集团的新产品，该等新产tracking smartwatches and smartwatches for cycling. The Group is in the course of 品将专注于医疗保健的可穿戴技术，如implementing the above measures and will continue to do so in the remainder of 健康追踪智能手表及骑行智能手表。本the year 2022. 集团正在实施上述措施，并将于二零二二年余下时间继续实施。The Directors had reviewed the Group’s cash flow projections prepared by the 董事已审阅管理层编制的本集团自二零management that covered a period of not less than 12 months from 31 May 2022, 二二年五月三十一日（即批准本年报之being the date of approving this annual report. Having taken into account the 日）起不少于12个月期间的现金流量预above-mentioned plans and measures, the Directors were of the opinion that the 测。经考虑上述计划及措施，董事认Group would have sufficient working capital to finance its operations and to meet 为，本集团将拥有充足的营运资金为其its financial obligations as and when they fall due within the next twelve months 营运提供资金及履行自综合财务状况表from the date of the consolidated statement of financial position. Accordingly, the 日期起未来12个月内到期之财务责任。consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 因此，综合财务报表乃按持续经营基准编制。The Directors have explained the above plans to the Auditor that the Group is able 董事已向核数师解释上述计划并表示，to operate as a going concern and will be able to have sufficient working capital in 本集团有能力持续经营，且经考虑本年the next twelve months from 31 May 2022 after taking into consideration of the 报综合财务报表附注2所载因素，本集factors in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this annual 团于自二零二二年五月三十一日起计未report. 来12个月可拥有充足的营运资金。Despite the evidences and explanations provided to Auditor in relation to the 尽管已向核数师提供本集团持续经营能Group’s ability of going concern, Auditor still regarded that due to the uncertainty of 力的证据并作出解释，核数师仍认为，the Group’s ability to maintain adequate future cash flows, it was unable to ascertain 由于本集团未来维持充足现金流量的能whether the assumptions made by the Directors in preparing the consolidated 力存在不确定性，其无法确定董事于按financial statements on a going concern basis were proper and appropriate. 持续经营基准编制综合财务报表时作出的假设是否妥当及适当。Annual Report 2021 年报 91IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Directors’ Report董事会报告书The Directors have used their best endeavour to provide information and has 董事已竭尽所能向核数师提供资料及解explained the situation of the Group to Auditor. In view of the financial performance 释本集团的情况。鉴于本集团于二零of the Group in FY2021 and the uncertainty of macroeconomic environment in 二一年年度的财务表现以及COVID-192022 due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the Directors understood the view of the 疫情导致二零二二年宏观经济环境存在Auditor. 不确定性，董事理解核数师的意见。The audit committee of the Board (the “Audit Committee”) understands the audit 董事会审核委员会（“审核委员会”）理解modification on going concern raised by Auditor and has discussed it with the 核数师提出的有关持续经营的审核修Management and Auditor. The Audit Committee shared the same view with the 订，并已与管理层及核数师进行讨论。Management. 审核委员会与管理层持相同意见。EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD 报告期后事项Details of the events after the reporting period are set out in note 36 to the consolidated 报告期后事项之详情载于本年报之综合财务financial statements contained in this annual report. 报表附注36。PERMITTED PROVISION 获批准的条文Pursuant to the Company’s Bye-laws, every Director shall be entitled to be indemnified out 根据本公司章程细则，各董事均有权因其作of the assets of the Company against all losses or liabilities incurred or sustained by him as 为董事而就其产生或蒙受的一切亏损或负债a Director. 自本公司资产中获得补偿。On behalf of the Board 代表董事会Zhu Yongning 朱永宁Executive Director (Chief Executive Officer) 执行董事（首席执行官）31 May 2022 二零二二年五月三十一日Hong Kong 香港92 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Independent Auditor’s Report独立核数师报告MAZARS CPA LIMITED中审众环（香港）会计师事务所有限公司42ndFloor, Central Plaza18 Harbour Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong香港湾仔港湾道18号中环广场42楼Tel电话：(852) 2909 5555Fax 传真：(852) 2810 0032Email 电邮：info@mazars.hkWebsite 网址：www.mazars.hkTO THE MEMBERS OF IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 致：万威国际有限公司全体股东(incorporated in Bermuda with limited liability) （于百慕大注册成立之有限公司）DISCLAIMER OF OPINION 不发表意见We were engaged to audit the consolidated financial statements of IDT International 我们受聘审计列载于第96页至203页的万威国Limited (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries (together the “Group”) set out on pages 96 际有限公司（“贵公司”）及其附属公司（统称to 203, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December “贵集团”）的综合财务报表，此等财务报表包2021, and the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, 括于二零二一年十二月三十一日的综合财务the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash 状况表与截至该日止年度的综合损益及其他flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including 全面收益表、综合权益变动表和综合现金流a summary of significant accounting policies. 量表，以及综合财务报表附注，包括主要会计政策概要。We do not express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 我们对 贵集团之综合财务报表不发表意Because of the significance of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion 见。由于我们报告中不发表意见之基准一节section of our report, we have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 内所述事项之重要性，我们并未能够取得充evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements. 足适当审计凭据以就该等综合财务报表发表In all other respects, in our opinion the consolidated financial statements have been 之审计意见提供基准。在所有其他方面，我properly prepared in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong 们认为综合财务报表已根据香港公司条例之Companies Ordinance. 披露规定妥为编制。BASIS FOR DISCLAIMER OF OPINION 不发表意见之基准Material uncertainty related to going concern 有关持续经营之重大不明朗因素As described in the “Going concern” section in note 2 to the consolidated financial 诚如综合财务报表附注2“持续经营”一节所statements, the Group reported a loss attributable to the owners of the Company 述， 贵集团汇报截至二零二一年十二月of approximately HK$84.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2021 and, at 31 三十一日止年度 贵公司拥有人应占亏损约December 2021, the Group had net current liabilities and net liabilities of approximately 港币84.2百万元，且 贵集团于二零二一年HK$252.4 million and approximately HK$305.6 million, respectively. 十二月三十一日流动负债净额及负债净额分别约港币252.4百万元及约港币305.6百万元。Subsequent to the reporting period, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the Group’s 于报告期后， 贵集团营运受COVID-19疫情operation to the extent that the production of the Group’s factory in Shenzhen was 影响，以致 贵集团位于深圳的工厂自二零temporarily suspended with effect from 5 March 2022 until further notice (as disclosed in 二二年三月五日起暂时停产，直至另行通知the Company’s announcement dated 7 March 2022). 为止（如 贵公司日期为二零二二年三月七日之公布所披露）。Annual Report 2021 年报 93IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Independent Auditor’s Report独立核数师报告These events and conditions, along with other matters as set forth in the “Going concern” 此等事件及情况（连同综合财务报表附注2“持section in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, indicate that the existence of 续经营”一节所载列之其他事项）显示存有重a material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue 大不明朗因素，可能对 贵集团持续经营能as a going concern, and, therefore, that the Group may be unable to realise its assets and 力构成重大疑问，故 贵集团可能无法于日discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business. 常业务过程中变现资产及偿还负债。The validity of the going concern assumption is dependent on the successful and 持续经营假设的有效性取决于综合财务报表favourable outcomes of the measures being taken by the management of the Group and 附注2“持续经营”一节所述 贵集团管理层采the development of the events as described in the “Going concern” section in note 2 to 取措施能否达到成功及利好之成果以及事态the consolidated financial statements. The management of the Group is of the opinion 发展。 贵集团管理层认为 贵集团将有能that the Group would be able to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the consolidated 力持续经营。因此，综合财务报表乃按持续financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, and do not include any 经营基础编制，而并无包括倘 贵集团未能adjustments relating to the recognition of provisions or the realisation and reclassification of 持续经营时可能需要就有关确认拨备或变现non-current assets and non-current liabilities that may be necessary if the Group is unable 及重新分类非流动资产及非流动负债作出之to continue as a going concern. 任何调整。We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the use of going 我们未能就于编制综合财务报表时使用持续concern assumption in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Should 经营假设获得充分而适当的审计凭证。倘持the going concern assumption be inappropriate, adjustments may have to be made to 续经营假设不适用，可能须作出调整，以反reflect the situation that assets may need to be realised at the amounts other than that 映资产可能需要按现时于二零二一年十二月are currently recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 三十一日的综合财务状况表所记录以外金额2021. 变现的情况。In addition, the Group may have to recognise further liabilities that might arise, and to 此外， 贵集团亦可能需要确认可能产生的额reclassify non-current assets and non-current liabilities as current assets and current 外负债，并分别将非流动资产及非流动负债liabilities, respectively. 重新分类为流动资产及流动负债。RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND THOSE CHARGED WITH 董事及治理层就综合财务报表须承担的GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 责任The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial 贵公司董事须负责根据香港会计师公会（“香statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting 港会计师公会”）颁布的香港财务报告准则及Standards issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants (the “HKICPA”) 香港公司条例的披露要求拟备真实而中肯的and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance, and for such 综合财务报表，并对其认为为使综合财务报internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of 表的拟备不存在由于欺诈或错误而导致的重consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 大错误陈述所需的内部控制负责。fraud or error.94 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Independent Auditor’s Report独立核数师报告In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors of the Company are 在拟备综合财务报表时， 贵公司董事负责评responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 估 贵集团持续经营的能力，并在适用情况as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 下披露与持续经营有关的事项，以及使用持accounting unless the directors of the Company either intend to liquidate the Group or to 续经营为会计基础，除非 贵公司董事有意cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 将 贵集团清盘或停止经营，或别无其他实际的替代方案。Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial 治理层须负责监督 贵集团的财务报告过程。reporting process.AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED 核数师就审计综合财务报表承担的责任FINANCIAL STATEMENTSOur responsibility is to conduct an audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 我们的责任是根据香港会计师公会颁布的《香in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Auditing issued by the HKICPA and to issue 港审计准则》对 贵集团的综合财务报表进an auditor’s report. However, because of the matter described in the Basis for Disclaimer 行审计，并出具核数师报告。然而，由于我of Opinion section of our report, we were not able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 们的报告中不发表意见之基准一节所述之事evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements. 项，我们未能获取充足、适当的审计凭证，以便为该等综合财务报表提供审计意见的基础。This report is made solely to you, as a body, in accordance with section 90 of Bermuda 此报告根据百慕大公司法例第90条仅向 阁Companies Act and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or 下（作为整体）作出，除此之外本报告别无其accept liability to any other person for the contents of this report. 他目的。我们不会就本报告的内容向任何其他人士负上或承担任何责任。We are independent of the Group in accordance with the HKICPA’s Code of Ethics 根据香港会计师公会颁布的专业会计师道德for Professional Accountants (the “Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical 守则（“守则”），我们独立于 贵集团，并已responsibilities in accordance with the Code. 履行我们于守则下的其他道德责任。Mazars CPA Limited 中审众环（香港）会计师事务所有限公司Certified Public Accountants 执业会计师Hong Kong, 31 May 2022 香港，二零二二年五月三十一日The engagement director on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is: 出具本独立核数师报告的审计项目董事是：She Shing Pang 佘胜鹏Practising Certificate number: P05510 执业证书编号：P05510Annual Report 2021 年报 95IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income综合损益及其他全面收益表For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度NOTES 2021 2020附注 二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Revenue 收益 6 17.1 55.4Cost of goods sold 销 售成本 (15.3) (49.8)Gross profit 毛利 1.8 5.6Other income 其他收入 7 6.6 16.2Other losses, net 其他亏损，净额 7 (0.6) (4.7)Charge of loss allowance on financial assets 扣除金融资产亏损拨备 8 (8.7) (18.2)Research expenses 研究开支 (13.8) (27.3)Distribution and selling expenses 分销及销售开支 (5.4) (14.7)General administrative expenses 一般行政开支 (45.6) (49.5)Losses from impairment 减值亏损 9 (11.8) –Finance costs 融 资成本 9 (6.7) (3.2)Loss before taxation 除税前亏损 9 (84.2) (95.8)Taxation 税 项 12 – –Loss for the year 本年度亏损 (84.2) (95.8)Other comprehensive loss: 其他全面亏损：Item that may be reclassified subsequently 其后可能会重新分类至损益账的to profit or loss: 项目：Exchange differences arising on translation of 换算海外业务产生的汇兑差额foreign operations (0.1) (0.4)Total comprehensive loss for the year 本 年度全面亏损总额 (84.3) (96.2)Loss for the year attributable to: 以下各项应占本年度亏损：– Owners of the Company －本公司拥有人 (84.2) (95.8)– Non-controlling interests － 非控股权益 – –(84.2) (95.8)Total comprehensive loss for the year 以下各项应占本年度全面亏损attributable to: 总额：– Owners of the Company －本公司拥有人 (84.3) (96.2)– Non-controlling interests － 非控股权益 – –(84.3) (96.2)Loss per share 每股亏损– Basic and diluted (HK cents) － 基本及摊薄（港仙） 13 (3.24) (3.68)96 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Consolidated Statement of Financial Position综合财务状况表At 31 December 2021于二零二一年十二月三十一日NOTES 2021 2020附注 二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Non-current assets 非流动资产Property, plant and equipment 物业、机器及设备 14 1.5 4.0Investment properties 投资物业 15 0.6 3.1Right-of-use assets 使用权资产 16 5.6 29.2Finance lease receivables 融资租赁应收款项 17 – 13.8Goodwill 商誉 18 – –Rental deposits 租金按金 3.4 3.411.1 53.5Current assets 流动资产Inventories 存货 19 5.2 7.1Trade and other receivables 应收账款及其他应收款项 20 6.9 6.3Finance lease receivables 融资租赁应收款项 17 5.2 11.7Restricted bank balances 受限制银行结余 21 3.4 3.7Cash and cash equivalents 现金及等同现金项目 21 49.5 9.470.2 38.2Current liabilities 流动负债Trade and other payables 应付账款及其他应付款项 22 61.8 58.5Borrowings 借款 25 9.3 –Lease liabilities 租赁负债 16 27.1 26.8Tax payable 应付税款 12 12.0 12.9Contract liabilities 合约负债 23 8.7 18.7Loan from a shareholder 股东贷款 24 203.7 121.5322.6 238.4Net current liabilities 流 动负债净值 (252.4) (200.2)Non-current liabilities 非流动负债Lease liabilities 租赁负债 16 15.6 29.8Borrowings 借款 25 48.7 44.864.3 74.6NET LIABILITIES 负 债净值 (305.6) (221.3)Annual Report 2021 年报 97IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Consolidated Statement of Financial Position综合财务状况表At 31 December 2021于二零二一年十二月三十一日NOTE 2021 2020附注 二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Capital and reserves 股本及储备Share capital 股本 26 260.0 260.0Reserves 储备 (565.7) (481.4)Equity attributable to owners of the Company 本公司拥有人应占权益 (305.7) (221.4)Non-controlling interests 非 控股权益 0.1 0.1NET DEFICIT 亏 绌净额 (305.6) (221.3)The consolidated financial statements on pages 96 to 203 were approved and authorised 第96页至第203页之综合财务报表已于二零for issue by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2022 and signed on its behalf by: 二二年五月三十一日获董事会批准及授权发行，并由下列人士代表签署：Zhu Yongning Zhou Rui 朱永宁 周锐Director Director 董事 董事98 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity综合权益变动表For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度Attributable to owners of the Company本公司拥有人所占Non-Share Share Other Translation Accumulated controllingcapital premium reserve reserve losses Sub-total interests Total货币换算 非控股股本 股份溢价 其他储备 储备 累计亏损 小计 权益 总计HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元(Note (a)) (Note (b)) (Note (c))（附注(a)） （附注(b)） （附注(c)）At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 260.0 165.0 32.5 (101.8) (480.9) (125.2) 0.1 (125.1)Loss for the year 本年度亏损 – – – – (95.8) (95.8) – (95.8)Other comprehensive loss: 其他全面亏损：Exchange differences arising on 换算海外业务产生的汇兑差额translation of foreign operations – – – (0.4) – (0.4) – (0.4)Total comprehensive loss 本年度全面亏损总额for the year – – – (0.4) (95.8) (96.2) – (96.2)At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日 260.0 165.0 32.5 (102.2) (576.7) (221.4) 0.1 (221.3)At 1 January 2021 于二零二一年一月一日 260. 0 165. 0 32. 5 (102. 2) (576. 7) (221. 4) 0. 1 (221. 3)L oss for the year 本年度亏损 – – – – (84. 2) (84. 2) – (84. 2)Other comprehensive loss: 其他全面亏损：Exchange differences arising on 换算海外业务产生的汇兑差额translation of foreign operations – – – (0. 1) – (0. 1) – (0. 1)Total comprehensive loss 本年度全面亏损总额for the year – – – (0. 1) (84. 2) (84. 3) – (84. 3)A t 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 260. 0 165. 0 32. 5 (102. 3) (660. 9) (305. 7) 0. 1 (305. 6)Notes: 附注：(a) The application of share premium is governed by Section 40 of the Bermuda Companies Act (a) 股份溢价之应用受百慕大一九八一年《公司1981. 法》第40条规管。(b) Other reserve has been set up and is dealt with in accordance with the accounting policies (b) 其他储备乃根据对本集团于附属公司之所有adopted for changes in the Group’s ownership interest in its subsidiaries which do not result 权权益变动而并不导致失去控制权所采纳之in a loss of control as set out in “Basis of consolidation” under note 4 to the consolidated 会计政策（如综合财务报表附注4下“综合基financial statements. 准”所载列）设立及处理。(c) Translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of (c) 货币换算储备包括换算海外业务财务报表产the financial statements of foreign operations. 生之所有汇兑差额。Annual Report 2021 年报 99IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows综合现金流量表For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元OPERATING ACTIVITIES 经营活动Loss before taxation 除税前亏损 (84.2) (95.8)Adjustments for: 调整：Finance costs 融资成本 6.7 3.2Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 物业、机器及设备折旧 2.5 8.1Depreciation of investment properties 投资物业折旧 1.5 0.1Depreciation of right-of-use assets 使用权资产折旧 14.7 7.3Gain on derecognition of right-of-use assets 终止确认与总租赁有关的使用权relating to the head leases 资产的收益 – (1.3)Charge of loss allowance on financial assets 扣除金融资产亏损拨备 8.7 18.2(Reversal of write-down) Write-down of inventories 存货（撇减拨回）撇减 (1.9) 4.5Provision for losses on litigations 诉讼亏损拨备 1.5 3.3Losses from impairment 减值亏损 11.8 –Exchange differences 汇兑差额 0.1 2.8Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 营运资金变动前之经营现金流量 (38.6) (49.6)Decrease in inventories 存货减少 3.8 5.2Decrease in finance lease receivables 融资租赁应收款项减少 11.7 0.8(Increase) Decrease in trade and other receivables 应收账款及其他应收款项（增加）减少 (2.6) 22.6Decrease (Increase) in restricted bank balances 受限制银行结余减少（增加） 0.3 (3.7)Decrease in trade and other payables 应付账款及其他应付款项减少 (8.3) (23.5)Increase (Decrease) in contract liabilities 合约负债增加（减少） 0.1 (4.6)Cash used in operations and net cash used in 营运所用现金及经营活动所用现金operating activities 净额 (33.6) (52.8)100 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows综合现金流量表For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元INVESTING ACTIVITY 投资活动Purchase of property, plant and equipment 购置物业、机器及设备 – (0.3)Net cash used in investing activity 投资活动所用现金净额 – (0.3)FINANCING ACTIVITIES 融资活动Proceeds of loan from a shareholder 股东贷款所得款项 82.2 52.5Proceeds from borrowings 借款所得款项 9.3 –Repayment of lease liabilities 偿还租赁负债 (17.7) (8.9)Net cash from financing activities 融资活动所得现金净额 73.8 43.6Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 现金及等同现金项目之增加（减少）净额 40.2 (9.5)Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 年初之现金及等同现金项目 9.4 18.0Effects of foreign exchange rate changes 外汇汇率变动影响 (0.1) 0.9Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 年终之现金及等同现金项目 49.5 9.4Annual Report 2021 年报 101IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度1. GENERAL INFORMATION 1. 一般事项IDT International Limited (the “Company”, together with its subsidiaries are 万威国际有限公司（“本公司”，连同其collectively referred to as the “Group”), was incorporated in Bermuda as an 附属公司统称“本集团”）乃于百慕大注exempted company with limited liability. The shares of the Company are listed 册成立之获豁免有限公司，其股份在香on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “Stock 港联合交易所有限公司（“联交所”）主板Exchange”). The addresses of the registered office and principal place of business of 上市。本公司注册办事处及主要营业地the Company is located at Block C, 9th Floor, Phase 1, Kaiser Estate, 41 Man Yue 点位于香港九龙红磡民裕街41号凯旋工Street, Hunghom, Kowloon, Hong Kong. 商中心1期9楼C座。The Company acts as an investment holding company while its subsidiaries are 本公司乃一间投资控股公司。各附属公principally engaged in the design, development, manufacture, sales and marketing of 司之主要业务为设计、开发、制造、销various consumer electronic products. 售及推广多种电子消费产品。2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 2. 呈列基准Basis of preparation 编制基准The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Hong 本综合财务报表已根据香港会计师公会Kong Financial Reporting Standards (“HKFRSs”), which collective term includes （“香港会计师公会”）颁布之香港财务报all applicable Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards, Hong Kong Accounting 告准则（“香港财务报告准则”，包括所Standards (“HKASs”) and Interpretations issued by the Hong Kong Institute of 有适用香港财务报告准则、香港会计准Certified Public Accountants (the “HKICPA”), accounting principles generally 则（“香港会计准则”）及诠释）、香港公accepted in Hong Kong and the disclosure requirements of the Hong Kong 认会计原则及香港《公司条例》之披露规Companies Ordinance. The consolidated financial statements also comply with 定编制。本综合财务报表亦遵守联交所the applicable disclosure requirements under the Rules Governing the Listing of 证券上市规则（“上市规则”）之适用披露Securities on the Stock Exchange (the “Listing Rules”). 规定。The consolidated financial statements are presented in Hong Kong dollars (“HK$”) 本综合财务报表以本公司之功能货币港which is the same as the functional currency of the Company. All amounts have 币（“港币”）呈列。所有金额均已四舍五been rounded to the nearest hundred thousand. 入至最接近十万位数。The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent 本综合财务报表以与二零二零年综合财with the accounting policies adopted in the 2020 consolidated financial statements 务报表所采用之会计政策一致基准编except for the adoption of the new/revised HKFRSs that are relevant to the Group 制，惟采用本综合财务报表附注3所载and effective from the current year as set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial 列对本集团相关且于本年度起生效之新statements. 订╱经修订香港财务报告准则除外。A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted by the Group is set out in 有关本集团所采用之主要会计政策载列note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 于本综合财务报表附注4。102 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 2. 呈列基准（续）Going concern 持续经营In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors of the Company 鉴于于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本have given careful consideration to the future liquidity of the Group in light of the 集团的流动负债超出其流动资产约港币fact that the Group’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by approximately 252.4百万元、截至该日本集团的总负债HK$252.4 million at 31 December 2021, the Group’s total liabilities exceeded its 超出总资产约港币305.6百万元及本集团total assets by approximately HK$305.6 million as of that date, and that the Group 截至该日止年度产生亏损约港币84.2百incurred a loss of approximately HK$84.2 million for the year then ended. 万元，故在拟备综合财务报表时，本公司董事已仔细考虑本集团的未来资金流动。Subsequent to the reporting period, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the 于报告期后，本集团营运受COVID-19Group’s operation to the extent that the production of the Group’s factory in 疫情影响，以致本集团位于深圳的工厂Shenzhen was temporarily suspended with effect from 5 March 2022 until further 自二零二二年三月五日起暂时停产，直notice (as disclosed in the Company’s announcement dated 7 March 2022). 至另行通知为止（如本公司日期为二零二二年三月七日之公布所披露）。These events and conditions indicate that the existence of a material uncertainties 此等事件及情况显示存有重大不明朗因that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, 素，可能对本集团持续经营能力构成重and, therefore, that the Group may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its 大疑问，故本集团可能无法于日常业务liabilities in the normal course of business. 过程中变现资产及偿还负债。The directors of the Company are of the opinion that the Group will have sufficient 经考虑以下各项，本公司董事认为，本working capital to finance its operations and to meet its financial obligations for at 集团将拥有足够的营运资金为其运营拨least the next twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial 付资金及履行其自批准该等综合财务报statements, after taking into consideration of the following: 表日期起未来至少12个月的财务责任：1. China Huaneng Foundation Construction Investment Limited (“Huaneng”), 1. 本公司最大股东中国华能基础建the largest shareholder of the Company and its controlling shareholder, have 设投资有限公司（“华能”）及其控committed and have proved their ability to provide continuous financial 股股东已承诺并证明其有能力于support to the Group as is necessary to enable the Group to meet its day-to- 必要时为本集团提供持续财务支day operations and its financial obligations as they fall due; 持，以确保本集团能够进行日常营运及履行到期的财务责任；2. Huaneng has undertaken that the repayment of its loan to the Group of 2. 华能已承诺将不会自本综合财务approximately HK$203.7 million at 31 December 2021 will not be requested 报表获批准日期起12个月内要求within twelve months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial 偿还于二零二一年十二月三十一statements, unless the Group has obtained funding from other sources and is 日约为港币203.7百万元之向本集in a position to meet all repayment obligations at that time; 团贷款，除非本集团已从其他来源获取资金，并于当时处于可履行一切还款责任的状况；Annual Report 2021 年报 103IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) 2. 呈列基准（续）Going concern (continued) 持续经营（续）3. the Group continues to improve the operating efficiency by implementing 3. 本集团继续透过实施措施收紧对measures to tighten cost controls over various operating expenses in order 若干经营开支的成本控制改善经to enhance its profitability and to improve the cash flow from its operation in 营效率，以提升盈利能力及改善future; 未来经营所得现金流量；4. the Group continues to negotiate/seek opportunities with the financial 4. 本集团继续与该金融机构磋商╱institutions for the renewal of existing/inception of the new financing 寻求机会续新现有╱开始新的融arrangement to meet the Group’s working capital and financial requirements 资安排以满足本集团日后营运资in the future; and 金及财务需求；及5. the Group is actively exploring the availability of alternative source of 5. 本集团正积极探讨其他融资来源。financing.Having regard to the cash flow projection of the Group, which are prepared assuming 经考虑本集团现金流预测（按假设上述that the above measures are successful, the directors of the Company are of the 措施成功而编制），本公司董事认为，opinion that, in the light of the measures taken to-date, together with the expected 鉴于至今所采取措施，连同其他实施中results of the other measures in progress, the Group will have sufficient funding 措施之预期结果，本集团将有充足资金resources to satisfy its future working capital and other financing requirements. 资源满足其未来营运资金及其他融资需The directors of the Company believe that the aforementioned measures will be 求。本公司董事认为，根据本集团管理successful, based on the continuous efforts by the management of the Group. 层不懈努力，上述措施将获成功实施。However, should the above measures not be able to implement successfully, the 然而，倘上述措施无法成功实施，则本Group may not have sufficient funds to operate as a going concern, in which case, 集团可能没有足够的资金持续经营，在adjustments might have to be made to the carrying values of the Company’s assets 该情况下，可能须将本公司资产之账面to their recoverable amounts, to reclassify the non-current assets and non-current 值调整至可收回金额，将非流动资产及liabilities as current assets and current liabilities, respectively, and to provide for any 非流动负债分别重新分类为流动资产及further liabilities which might arise. 流动负债，以及就可能产生之任何额外负债计提拨备。104 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度3. APPLICATION OF NEW/REVISED HKFRSs 3. 新订╱经修订香港财务报告准则之应用The Group has applied, for the first time, the following new/revised HKFRSs that are 本集团已首次应用以下适用于本集团的relevant to the Group: 新订╱经修订香港财务报告准则：Amendments to HKAS 39, HKFRSs 4, 7, 9 and 16: Interest Rate Benchmark 香港会计准则第39号、香港财务报告准Reform – Phase 2 则第4号、第7号、第9号及第16号（修订本）：利率基准改革－第2期The amendments address issues that might affect financial reporting when a 该等修订本解决了公司因利率基准改革company replaces the old interest rate benchmark with an alternative benchmark （“改革”）而以替代基准利率取代旧利率rate as a result of the interest rate benchmark reform (the “Reform”). The 基准时可能对财务报告造成影响的问amendments complement those issued in November 2019 and relate to: 题。该等修订本补充于二零一九年十一月颁布的修订本，并涉及：• changes to contractual cash flows – a company will not have to derecognise • 已订约现金流变动－公司将毋须or adjust the carrying amount of financial instruments for changes required by 就改革要求的变动而终止确认或the Reform, but will instead update the effective interest rate to reflect the 调整金融工具账面值，惟须更新change to the alternative benchmark rate; 实际利率以反映改用替代基准利率；• hedge accounting – a company will not have to discontinue its hedge • 对冲会计－如对冲符合其他对冲accounting solely because it makes changes required by the Reform, if the 会计基准，公司将毋须仅因改革hedge meets other hedge accounting criteria; and 所要求的变动而终止对冲会计；及• disclosures – a company will be required to disclose information about new • 披露－公司将须披露有关改革产risks arising from the reform and how it manages the transition to alternative 生的新增风险及如何管理过渡至benchmark rates. 替代基准利率的资料。The adoption of the above amendments does not have any significant impact on the 采用该等上述修订本并不会对综合财务consolidated financial statements. 报表产生任何重大影响。Annual Report 2021 年报 105IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度3. APPLICATION OF NEW/REVISED HKFRSs (continued) 3. 新订╱经修订香港财务报告准则之应用（续）Future changes in HKFRSs 香港财务报告准则之未来变动At the date of authorisation of the consolidated financial statements, the HKICPA 于本综合财务报表获授权日期，本集团has issued the following new/revised HKFRSs that are not yet effective for the 并无提早采纳香港会计师公会已颁布但current year, which the Group has not early adopted. 于本年度尚未生效之下列新订╱经修订香港财务报告准则。Amendments to HKFRS16 COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 香港财务报告准则第16号 二零二一年June 20211 （修订本） 六月三十日之后的COVID-19相关租金优惠1Amendments to HKAS 16 Proceeds before Intended Use2 香港会计准则第16号 作拟定用途前之（修订本） 所得款项2Amendments to HKAS 37 Cost of Fulfilling a Contract2 香港会计准则第37号 履行合约的成本2（修订本）Amendments to HKFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework2 香港财务报告准则第3号 对概念框架的（修订本） 引述2Annual Improvements to HKFRSs 2018–2020 Cycle2 香港财务报告准则的年度 二零一八年至改进 二零二零年周期2Amendments to HKAS 1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or 香港会计准则第1号 将负债分类为Non-current3 （修订本） 流动或非流动3Amendments to HKAS 1 Disclosure of Accounting Policies3 香港会计准则第1号 会计政策披露3（修订本）Amendments to HKAS 8 Definition of Accounting Estimates3 香港会计准则第8号 会计估计的定义3（修订本）Amendments to HKAS 12 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising 香港会计准则第12号 与一项单一交易from a Single Transaction3 （修订本） 产生之资产及负债有关之递延税项3HKFRS 17 Insurance Contracts3 香港财务报告准则第17号 保险合约3Amendment to HKFRS 17 Initial Application of HKFRS 17 and 香港财务报告准则第17号 首次应用香港HKFRS 9 – Comparative Information3 （修订本） 财务报告准则第17号及香港财务报告准则第9号－比较资料3Amendments to HKFRS 10 and Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor 香港财务报告准则第10号 投资者与其联营HKAS 28 and its Associate or Joint Venture4 及香港会计准则第28号 公司或合营（修订本） 企业之间之资产出售或投入41 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2021 1 于二零二一年四月一日或之后开始之年度期间生效2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022 2 于二零二二年一月一日或之后开始之年度期间生效3 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023 3 于二零二三年一月一日或之后开始之年度期间生效4 The effective date to be determined 4 生效日期尚待厘定The directors of the Company do not anticipate that the adoption of the new/ 本公司董事预期日后采纳该等新订╱经revised HKFRSs in future periods will have any material impact on the results and 修订香港财务报告准则不会对本集团之financial position of the Group. 业绩及财务状况造成任何重大影响。106 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 4. 主要会计政策Basis of measurement 计量基准The measurement basis used in the preparation of the consolidated financial 编制本综合财务报表所采用之计量基准statements is historical cost. 为历史成本。Basis of consolidation 综合基准The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the 本综合财务报表包括本公司及本公司所Company and entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries. Control is 控制的实体及其附属公司的财务报表。achieved when the Company: 当本公司具有以下能力，即具有控制权：• has power over the investee; • 对投资对象行使权力；• is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the • 从参与投资对象活动而面对或有investee; and 权享有不同形式的回报；及• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. • 能够运用其权力影响投资对象回报。The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and 倘事实及情况反映上文所列三项控制因circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements 素其中一项或多项改变，则本集团会重of control listed above. 估其是否对被投资者拥有控制权。In the Company’s statement of financial position as set out in note 35 to the 于载于综合财务报表附注35之本公司财consolidated financial statements, an investment in subsidiary is stated at cost 务状况表，于附属公司之投资按成本减less impairment loss. The carrying amount of the investment is reduced to its 减值亏损列账。倘较可收回金额高，则recoverable amount on an individual basis, if it is higher than the recoverable 按个别基准将有关投资之账面值撇减至amount. The results of subsidiaries are accounted for by the Company on the basis 可收回金额。本公司按已收取及应收股of dividends received and receivable. 息基准将附属公司业绩记账。Annual Report 2021 年报 107IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Basis of consolidation (continued) 综合基准（续）Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the 当本集团取得附属公司之控制权时，开subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, 始将该附属公司综合入账；当本集团失income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are 去附属公司之控制权时，则停止将该附included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 属公司综合入账。具体而言，于本期间income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group 购入或出售的附属公司的收支已计入综ceases to control the subsidiary. 合损益及其他全面收益表。本集团取得控制权，直至本集团对该附属公司之控制权终止当日为止。Profit or loss and each item of other comprehensive income are attributed to the 损益及各其他全面收入项目归属予本公owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive 司拥有人及非控股权益。附属公司全面income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non- 收入总额归属予本公司拥有人及非控股controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit 权益，即使其导致非控股权益出现亏balance. 绌。When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to 本集团于需要时会对附属公司的财务报bring their accounting policies line with those used by other members of the Group. 表作出调整，使其会计政策与本集团会计政策相符。All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on 本集团内公司间一切交易、有关本集团consolidation. 成员间交易的结余、收入及支出已于综合账目时悉数对销。Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are presented separately from the Group’s 于附属公司的非控股权益与本集团于其equity therein, which represent present ownership interests entitling their holders to 中所占的股权分开呈列，后者指于清盘a proportionate share of net assets of the relevant subsidiaries upon liquidation. 时持有人可按比例获得的相关附属公司净资产份额的现时所有权权益。108 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Goodwill 商誉Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost less any 因收购业务产生之商誉按成本减除任何accumulated impairment losses, if any, and is presented separately in the 累积减值亏损（如有），并于综合财务状consolidated statement of financial position. 况表中另行列账。For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s 为了减值测试的目的，商誉乃被分配到cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit 预期可受惠于收购协同效应之各有关本from the synergies of the combination, which represent the lowest level at which 集团的创现单位或创现单位之组别（即the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not larger than an 监察商誉作内部管理目的之最低水平且operating segment. 不大于经营分部）。A cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) to which goodwill has 已获分配商誉之创现单位或创现单位之been allocated is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is 组别会每年或凡有迹象显示单位可能出indication that the unit may be impaired. For goodwill arising on an acquisition in a 现减值时会更频繁地进行减值测试。就reporting period, the cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) to 于报告期间内收购产生之商誉而言，所which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment before the end of that 获分配商誉之创现单位于报告期间结束reporting period. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than 前进行减值测试。当创现单位的可收回its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 金额少于其账面值，减值亏损会首先分amount of any goodwill allocated to that unit and then to the other assets of the 配以削减任何分配至该单位的商誉的账unit on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit (or 面值，然后按该单位（或创现单位之组groups of cash-generating units). 别）内其他资产账面值比例削减该单位其他资产的账面值。Property, plant and equipment 物业、机器及设备Property, plant and equipment including buildings held for use in the production 物业、机器及设备包括持有以用作货品or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes are stated in the 生产或供应或服务或行政用途的楼宇，consolidated statement of financial position at cost less subsequent accumulated 乃按成本值减除其后累积折旧以及累积depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses, if any. 减值亏损（如有）于综合财务状况表列账。Annual Report 2021 年报 109IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Property, plant and equipment (continued) 物业、机器及设备（续）Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of items of property, plant 物业、机器及设备均以直线法，按估计and equipment less their residual values over their estimated useful lives, using the 可用年期减去剩余值计提折旧拨备，以straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation 摊销成本。估计可使用年期、剩余值及method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any 折旧方法乃于各报告期末予以检讨，而changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. 任何估计变动的影响均以前瞻性为基础入账。An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when 物业、机器及设备之项目于出售时或当no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the 预期持续使用该资产不再带来未来经济asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, 利益时终止确认。因物业，机器及设备plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds 出售或报废而产生之任何收益或亏损and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss. （按出售所得款项净额与资产账面值之差额计算）乃列入损益。Investment properties 投资物业Investment properties are properties that are held by lessee, to earn rental income. 投资物业指为赚取租金收入而由承租人Investment properties include leased properties which are being recognised as right- 持有之物业。投资物业包括租赁物业，of-use assets upon application of HKFRS 16 and sub-leased by the Group under 其于应用香港财务报告准则第16号时确operating leases. 认为使用权资产并由本集团根据经营租赁进行分租。Investment properties are initially measured at cost, including any directly attributable 投资物业初步按成本（包括任何直接应expenditure. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at 占开支）计量。初步确认后，投资物业cost less subsequent accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 以成本减其后累计折旧及任何累计减值losses. Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of investment 亏损列账。确认折旧时，采用直线法将properties over shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives and after 投资物业的成本按较短的租期及估计可taking into account of their estimated residual value, using the straight-line method. 使用年期及考虑其估计剩余价值后撇销。If an investment property becomes a right-of-use asset because its use has changed as 倘投资物业因其使用用途发生改变而变evidenced by the commencement of owner-occupation, the carrying amount of the 为使用权资产（自拥有人占用开始时），property at the date of transfer is transferred to the right-of-use asset. 则该物业在转让之日的账面值将转移至使用权资产。110 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Investment properties (continued) 投资物业（续）An investment property is derecognised upon disposal or when the investment 投资物业于出售或当投资物业永久不再property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits 使用并预期其出售不会带来未来经济利are expected from its disposal. A leased property which is recognised as a right- 益时终止确认。倘本集团作为中介出租of-use asset upon application of HKFRS 16 is derecognised if the Group as an 人将分租分类为融资租赁，则于应用香intermediate lessor classifies the sublease as a finance lease. Any gain or loss arising 港财务报告准则第16号后确认为使用权on derecognition of the property (calculated as the difference between the net 资产的租赁物业将终止确认。物业终止disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss 确认时产生的任何收益或亏损（按出售in the period in which the property is derecognised. 所得款项净额与资产账面值之间的差额计算），乃计入该物业终止确认期间内的损益。Intangible assets 无形资产Research and development costs 研究及开发成本Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which 研究活动的支出于产生期间确认为开it is incurred. Costs incurred on development activities, which involve the application 支。涉及将研究结果应用于计划或设计of research findings to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 生产新的或大幅改善的产品及程序之开improved products and processes, are capitalised if the product or process is 发活动所产生成本在有关产产品或程序technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to 技术上及商业上可行且本集团有足够资complete the development. The expenditure capitalised will be the outsourcing 源完成开发的情况下资本化。资本化costs. Other development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as an expense as 支出将为外判成本。其他开发支出于损incurred. When the asset is available for use, the capitalised development costs are 益确认为已产生开支。当资产可供使用amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. 时，资本化开发成本以直线法按估计可使用年期摊销。Annual Report 2021 年报 111IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments 金融工具Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a group entity becomes 倘集团实体成为该工具合约条文之订约a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. All regular way purchases 方，应确认金融资产及金融负债。所有or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. 以常规方式购入或出售金融资产乃按交Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require 易日期基准确认及终止确认。以常规方delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in 式购入或出售指须于市场规定或惯例所the marketplace. 订时限内交付资产的金融资产购入或出售。Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value except for 金融资产及金融负债初步按公平值计trade receivables without a significant financing component arising from contracts 量，惟源于客户合约没有重大融资成分with customers which are initially measured in accordance with HKFRS 15. 的应收账款按香港财务报告准则第15号Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial 初步计量。收购或发行金融资产及金融assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets or financial liabilities at fair 负债（除按公平值计入损益（“按公平值value through profit or loss (the “FVTPL”)) are added to or deducted from the fair 计入损益”）的金融资产或金融负债）直value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. 接应占之交易成本乃于初步确认时加入Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial 金融资产或金融负债之公平值或自其中liabilities at FVTPL are recognised immediately in profit or loss. 扣除（如适用）。收购按公平值计入损益的金融资产或金融负债直接应占的交易成本即时于损益确认。The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of 实际利率法是计算金融资产或金融负债a financial asset or financial liability and of allocating interest income and interest 之摊销成本，以及在摊分有关期间利息expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 收入及利息支出的方法。该实际利率为discounts estimated future cash receipts and payments (including all fees and points 将金融资产或金融负债于预计年期或较paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction 短期间内（如适用）的预计未来现金收入costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial 及付款（包括构成实际利率之所有已付asset or financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying 或已收取之费用或点数、交易成本及其amount on initial recognition. 他溢价或折扣）准确折现至于初次确认时之账面净值之利率。112 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets 金融资产Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets 金融资产之分类及其后计量Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at 符合以下条件的金融资产于其后按摊销amortised cost: 成本计量：• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect • 该金融资产以收取合约现金流量contractual cash flows; and 为目的之商业模式下持有；及• the contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely • 合约条款令特定日期产生之现金payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 流量谨为支付本金及未偿还本金之利息。Financial assets that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair 符合下列条件的金融资产其后按公平值value through other comprehensive income (the “FVTOCI”): 计入其他全面收益（“按公平值计入其他全面收益”）计量：• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved • 金融资产按目的为收取合约现金by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling; and 流量及出售实现的业务模式内持有；及• the contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely • 合约条款令于特定日期产生之现payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 金流量谨为支付本金及未偿还本金之利息。All other financial assets are subsequently measured at FVTPL, except that at the 所有其他金融资产其后按公平值计入损date of initial application/initial recognition of a financial asset, the Group may 益计量，惟于首次应用╱首次确认金融irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity investment 资产当日，倘该等股本投资并非持作买in other comprehensive income (the “OCI”) if that equity investment is neither held 卖，亦非收购方于香港财务报告准则第for trading nor contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business 3号业务合并所应用之业务合并中确认combination to which HKFRS 3 Business Combinations applies. 之或然代价，本集团可不可撤销地选择于其他全面收益（“其他全面收益”）呈列股本投资公平值之其后变动。Annual Report 2021 年报 113IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之分类及其后计量（续）A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: 应当划分为交易性金融资产：• it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term; or • 取得金融资产的目的主要是为了近期内出售；或• on initial recognition it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments • 初始确认时，属本集团一并管理that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short- 的已识别金融工具组合的一部term profit-taking; or 分，并且具有近期实际短期套利模式；或• it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. • 其为不指定及有效作为对冲工具之衍生工具。In addition, the Group may irrevocably designate a financial asset that are required 此外，本集团可不可撤回地指定一项须to be measured at the amortised cost or FVTOCI as measured at FVTPL if doing so 按摊销成本或透过按公平值计入其他全eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch. 面收益计量的金融资产按公平值计入损益计量，前提为有关指定可消除或大幅减少会计错配。Amortised cost and interest income 摊销成本及利息收入Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method for financial 利息收入就其后按摊销成本计量的金融assets measured subsequently at amortised cost and debt instruments/receivables 资产及其后按公平值计入其他全面收益subsequently measured at FVTOCI. Interest income is calculated by applying the 计量的债务工具╱应收款项以实际利率effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for 法确认。利息收入透过将实际利率应用financial assets that have subsequently become credit-impaired (see below). 于金融资产总账面值计算，惟其后已变为信贷减值的金融资产则除外（见下文）。114 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之分类及其后计量（续）Amortised cost and interest income (continued) 摊销成本及利息收入（续）For financial assets that have subsequently become credit-impaired, interest income 就其后已变为信贷减值的金融资产而is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the 言，利息收入透过将实际利率应用于自financial asset from the next reporting period. If the credit risk on the credit- 下个报告期起计的金融资产摊销成本确impaired financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit- 认。倘信贷减值金融工具的信贷风险升impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to 高，以使金融资产不再维持信贷减值，the gross carrying amount of the financial asset from the beginning of the reporting 则利息收入在厘定资产不再维持信贷减period following the determination that the asset is no longer credit-impaired. 值后，透过将实际利率应用于自报告期开始时起计的金融资产总账面值确认。Impairment of financial assets 金融资产之减值The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (“ECL”) on 本集团就根据香港财务报告准则第9号financial assets which are subject to impairment under HKFRS 9 (including trade 须予减值的金融资产（包括应收账款及and other receivables, finance lease receivables and bank balances and cash). The 其他应收款项、融资租赁应收款项及银amount of ECL is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk 行结余及现金）的预期信贷亏损（“预期since initial recognition. 信贷亏损”）确认亏损拨备。预期信贷亏损金额于各报告日期更新，以反映自初步确认以来信贷风险的变化。Lifetime ECL represents the ECL that will result from all possible default events 全期预期信贷亏损指相关工具的预计年over the expected life of the relevant instrument. In contrast, 12-month ECL (“12m 期内所有可能的违约事件将产生的预期ECL”) represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default 信贷亏损。相反，12个月预期信贷亏损events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. Assessment are （“12个月预期信贷亏损”）指预期于报告done based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors 日期后12个月内可能发生的违约事件导that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of 致的部分全期预期信贷亏损。评估乃根both the current conditions at the reporting date as well as the forecast of future 据本集团过往信贷亏损经验进行，并就conditions. 债务人特有的因素、一般经济状况以及对报告日期的当前状况及未来状况预测的评估作出调整。Annual Report 2021 年报 115IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）The Group always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables without significant 本集团始终就没有重大融资成分的应收financing component. The ECL on these assets is assessed collectively using a 账款确认全期预期信贷亏损。该等资产provision matrix with appropriate groupings. 的预期信贷亏损乃采用具合适组别的拨备矩阵进行集体评估。For all other instruments, the Group measures the loss allowance equal to 12m 对于所有其他工具，本集团计量等于12ECL, unless when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial 个月预期信贷亏损的亏损拨备，除非自recognition, the Group recognises lifetime ECL. The assessment of whether lifetime 初步确认以来信贷风险大幅增加，则本ECL should be recognised is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of 集团确认全期预期信贷亏损。评估是否a default occurring since initial recognition. 应确认全期预期信贷亏损乃基于自初步确认以来发生违约的可能性或风险是否大幅增加。(i) Significant increase in credit risk (i) 信贷风险大幅增加In assessing whether the credit risk has increased significantly since initial 于评估自初步确认以来信货风险recognition, the Group compares the risk of a default occurring on the 是否大幅增加时，本集团将金融financial instrument as at the reporting date with the risk of a default 工具于报告日期发生的违约风险occurring on the financial instrument as at the date of initial recognition. 与该金融工具于初步确认日期发生的违约风险进行比较。In making this assessment, the Group considers both quantitative and 进行此评估时，本集团会考虑合qualitative information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical 理且有理据的定量及定性数据，experience and forward-looking information that is available without undue 包括过往经验及无需付出不必要cost or effort. 的成本或努力而可获得的前瞻性资料。116 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）(i) Significant increase in credit risk (continued) (i) 信贷风险大幅增加（续）In particular, the following information is taken into account when assessing 特别是，在评估信贷风险是否大whether credit risk has increased significantly: 幅增加时会考虑以下数据：• an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial • 金融工具的外部（如有）或instrument’s external (if available) or internal credit rating; 内部信贷评级的实际或预期显著恶化；• significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit risk, e.g. • 信贷风险的外界市场指标a significant increase in the credit spread, the credit default swap prices 的重大恶化，例如债务人for the debtor; 的信贷息差、信贷违约掉期价大幅增加；• existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic • 预计将导致债务人偿还其conditions that are expected to cause a significant decrease in the 债务责任的能力大幅下降debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations; 的业务、财务或经济状况的现有或预测的不利变化；• an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating results • 债务人经营业绩的实际或of the debtor; and 预期显著恶化；及• an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, • 导致债务人偿还其债务责economic, or technological environment of the debtor that results in a 任的能力大幅下降的债务significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations. 人监管、经济或技术环境的实际或预期的重大不利变化。Irrespective of the outcome of the above assessment, the Group presumes 不论上述评估的结果如何，本集that the credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition when 团认为，倘合约付款逾期超过30contractual payments are more than 30 days past due, unless the Group has 天，则自初步确认以来信贷风险reasonable and supportable information that demonstrates otherwise. 已大幅增加，除非本集团有合理且有理据的资料可予证明。Annual Report 2021 年报 117IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）(i) Significant increase in credit risk (continued) (i) 信贷风险大幅增加（续）The Group regularly monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify 本集团定期监控用以识别信贷风whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk and revises them 险有否大幅增加的标准之有效as appropriate to ensure that the criteria are capable of identifying significant 性，并修订有关标准（如适用）以increase in credit risk before the amount becomes past due. 确保其能够在金额逾期前识别信贷风险大幅增加。(ii) Definition of default (ii) 违约定义For internal credit risk management, the Group considers an event of default 就内部信贷风险管理而言，本集occurs when information developed internally or obtained from external 团认为，违约事件在内部制订或sources indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay its creditors, including the 得自外界来源的数据显示债务人Group, in full (without taking into account any collaterals held by the Group). 不大可能悉数向债权人（包括本集团）还款（未计及本集团所持任何抵押品）时发生。Irrespective of the above, the Group considers that default has occurred 无论上述情形如何，本集团认when a financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the Group has 为，倘金融资产逾期超过90天，reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging 则已发生违约事件，除非本集团default criterion is more appropriate. 有合理且有理据的数据显示更宽松的违约标准更为合适。118 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）(iii) Credit-impaired financial assets (iii) 信贷减值金融资产A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events of default that 倘发生一项或多项对金融资产估have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial 计未来现金流量有不利影响的违asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes 约事件，金融资产出现信贷减observable data about the following events: 值。金融资产信贷减值的证据包括有关下列事件的可观察数据：• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower; • 发行人或借款人出现严重财务困难；• a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event; • 违反合约，如违约或逾期事件；• the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons • 借款人的放款人因与借款relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the 人出现财务困难有关的经borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise 济或合约理由而给予借款consider; 人在一般情况下放款人不予考虑的优惠条件；• it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or • 借款人可能破产或进行其other financial reorganisation; or 他财务重组；或• the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because • 该金融资产的活跃市场因of financial difficulties. 财务困难而消失。Annual Report 2021 年报 119IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）(iv) Write-off policy (iv) 撇销政策The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating 倘有数据显示交易对手处于严重that the counterparty is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic 财务困难时，且并无实际收回可prospect of recovery, for example, when the counterparty has been placed 能（例如交易对手已被清盘或已进under liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings, or in the 入破产程序），或就应收账款而case of trade receivables, when the amounts are over three years past due, 言，有关金额逾期超过三年（以较whichever occurs sooner. Financial assets written off may still be subject 早发生者为准），本集团会撇销to enforcement activities under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking 金融资产。在考虑法律意见（如适into account legal advice where appropriate. A write-off constitutes a 当）后，已撇销的金融资产仍可根derecognition event. Any subsequent recoveries are recognised in profit or 据本集团的收回程序实施强制执loss. 行。撇销构成终止确认事件。其后收回的任何资产会于损益内确认。(v) Measurement and recognition of ECL (v) 预期信贷亏损之计量及确认The measurement of ECL is a function of the probability of default, loss given 预期信贷亏损之计量为违约概default (i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there is a default) and the exposure 率、违约损失率（即倘发生违约的at default. The assessment of the probability of default and loss given 损失程度）及违约风险之函数。违default is based on historical data adjusted by forward-looking information. 约概率及违约损失率之评估乃基Estimation of ECL reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is 于经前瞻性数据调整之历史数据determined with the respective risks of default occurring as the weights. 作出。预期信贷亏损的估计乃无偏概率加权平均金额，以各自发生违约的风险为权重厘定。Generally, the ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that 一般而言，预期信贷亏损乃根据are due to the Group in accordance with the contract and the cash flows 合约应付本集团之所有合约现金that the Group expects to receive, discounted at the effective interest rate 流量与本集团预期收取之现金流determined at initial recognition. 量之间的差额，并按初步确认时厘定之实际利率贴现。120 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）(v) Measurement and recognition of ECL (continued) (v) 预期信贷亏损之计量及确认（续）Where ECL is measured on a collective basis or cater for cases where 倘预期信贷亏损按集体基准计量evidence at the individual instrument level may not yet be available, the 或迎合个别工具水平证据未必存financial instruments are grouped on the following basis: 在的情况，则金融工具按以下基准归类：• nature of financial instruments (i.e. the Group’s trade and other • 金融工具性质（即本集团贸receivables are each assessed as a separate group); 易及其他应收款项各自评为独立组别）；• past-due status; • 逾期状况；• nature, size and industry of debtors; and • 债务人的性质、规模及行业；及• external credit ratings where available. • 外部信贷评级（倘有）。The grouping is regularly reviewed by the management of the Group to 归类工作经本集团管理层定期检ensure the constituents of each group continue to share similar credit risk 讨，以确保各组别成分继续分担characteristics. 类似信贷风险特性。Interest income is calculated based on the gross carrying amount of the 利息收入按金融资产的账面值计financial asset unless the financial asset is credit-impaired, in which case 算，除非该金融资产信贷减值，interest income is calculated based on amortised cost of the financial asset. 于该情况下，利息收入按金融资产的摊销成本计算。Annual Report 2021 年报 121IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Financial assets (continued) 金融资产（续）Impairment of financial assets (continued) 金融资产之减值（续）(v) Measurement and recognition of ECL (continued) (v) 预期信贷亏损之计量及确认（续）The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all 本集团透过调整账面值于损益确financial instruments by adjusting their carrying amount, with the exception of 认所有金融工具的减值收益或亏trade receivables and other receivables where the corresponding adjustment is 损，惟应收账款及其他应收款项recognised through a loss allowance account. 除外，其相关调整乃透过亏损拨备账予以确认。Financial liabilities and equity instruments 金融负债及股本工具Debt and equity instruments issued by a group entity are classified as either 集团实体发行之债务及股本工具乃根据financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual 合同安排的内容，以及金融负债及股本arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. 工具之定义分类为金融负债或股本工具。Equity instruments 股本工具An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets 股本工具乃代表本集团于扣减所有负债of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the group 后之资产中拥有剩余权益的任何合同。entities are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 集团实体发行之股本工具乃按已收所得款项扣除直接发行成本记账。Financial liabilities 金融负债Financial liabilities including trade and other payables, borrowings and loan from 金融负债（包括应付账款及其他应付款a shareholder are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 项、借款以及股东贷款）乃随后采用实interest method. 际利率法按摊销后成本计量。122 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Financial instruments (continued) 金融工具（续）Derecognition 终止确认The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to 本集团仅当从资产收取现金流量之合约the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and 权利已到期或把金融资产转让，并实质substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. 上将其于资产拥有权之绝大部分风险及回报转至另一实体时，才终止确认金融资产。On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the asset’s carrying 于终止确认金融资产时，该项资产账面amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and, if applicable, 值，与已收及应收代价及已于其他全面any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive 收益确认及累积于权益中之累计收益及income and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss. 亏损之总数间的差额会直接于损益确认。The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s 本集团仅会在订明责任解除、注销或届obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired. The difference between the 满时，终止确认金融负债。终止确认之carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and 金融负债的账面值与已付或应付代价之payable is recognised in profit or loss. 间的差额于损益确认。Cash equivalents 等同现金项目For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash equivalents 就综合现金流量表而言，等同现金项目represent short-term highly liquid investments which are readily convertible into 包括可随时转换为已知数额现金且价值known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 变动风险极微之短期高流动性投资，扣value, net of bank overdrafts (if any). 除银行透支（如有）。Annual Report 2021 年报 123IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Revenue from contracts with customers 客户合约收益Under HKFRS 15, the Group recognises revenue when (or as) a performance 根据香港财务报告准则第15号，当（或obligation is satisfied, i.e. when “control” of the goods or services underlying the 于）本集团于完成履约责任时（即于特定particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. 履约责任相关的货品或服务之“控制权”已转移至客户时）确认收益。A performance obligation represents a good or service (or a bundle of goods or 履约责任指一项明确货品或服务（或一services) that is distinct or a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially 组货品或服务）或一系列大致相同的明the same. 确货品或服务。Control is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time by reference 倘符合下列其中一项标准，而控制权随to the progress towards complete satisfaction of the relevant performance obligation 时间转移，收益会参考相关履约责任的if one of the following criteria is met: 已完成进度随时间确认：• the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by • 客户于本集团履约时同时收取及the Group’s performance as the Group performs; 消耗本集团履约所提供的利益；• the Group’s performance creates and enhances an asset that the customer • 本集团履约产生及提升于本集团controls as the Group performs; or 履约时由客户控制的资产；或• the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative • 本集团履约并无产生对本集团有use to the Group and the Group has an enforceable right to payment for 替代用途的资产，且本集团有强performance completed to date. 制执行权收取至今以履约的部分款项。Otherwise, revenue is recognised at a point in time when the customer obtains 否则，收益于客户获得明确的货品或服control of the distinct good or service. 务的控制权时确认。The Group recognised revenue at a point in time when the control of the goods is 本集团于货品的控制权获转让时确认收transferred. 益。A contract liability represents the Group’s obligation to transfer goods or services 合约负债指本集团因已自客户收取代价to a customer for which the Group has received consideration (or an amount of （或到期收取的代价金额），而须向客户consideration is due) from the customer. 转让货品或服务的责任。124 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Contract assets and contract liabilities 合约资产及合约负债If the Group performs by transferring goods or services to a customer before the 倘本集团于客户支付代价或付款到期前customer pays consideration or before payment is due, the contract is presented 将货品或服务转让予客户，则合约呈列as a contract asset, excluding any amounts presented as a receivable. Conversely, 为合约资产，惟不包括呈列为应收款项if a customer pays consideration, or the Group has a right to an amount of 的任何款项。相反，倘于本集团将货品consideration that is unconditional, before the Group transfers a good or service to 或服务转让予客户前客户支付代价，或the customer, the contract is presented as a contract liability when the payment is 本集团拥有无条件收取代价的权利，made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). A receivable is the Group’s right 则本集团在付款或付款到期时（以较早to consideration that is unconditional or only the passage of time is required before 者为准），合约呈列为合约负债。应收payment of that consideration is due. 款项指本集团拥有无条件收取代价的权利，或代价到期付款前仅需时间推移。For a single contract or a single set of related contracts, either a net contract asset 就单一合约或多份相关合约而言，概不or a net contract liability is presented. Contract assets and contract liabilities of 合约资产净值或合约负债净额呈列。不unrelated contracts are not presented on a net basis. 相关合约的合约资产与合约负债概不以净额呈列。For the business of Group, it is common for the Group to receive from the 就本集团业务而言，本集团惯常于服务customer the whole or some of the contractual payments before the services are 完成前或货品交付时（即有关交易之收completed or when the goods are delivered (i.e. the timing of revenue recognition 益确认时间点）向客户收取全额或部分for such transactions). The Group recognises a contract liability until it is recognised 合约付款。本集团确认合约负债直至其as revenue. During that period, any significant financing components, if applicable, 确认为收益。于该期间，任何重大融资will be included in the contract liability and will be expensed as accrued unless the 成分（如适用）将计入合约负债并以累计interest expense is eligible for capitalisation. 方式作开支，除非有关利息开支合资格作资本化。Annual Report 2021 年报 125IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Foreign currencies 外币In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in 于编制各个别集团实体之财务报表时，currencies other than the functional currency of that entity (foreign currencies) are 以该实体功能货币以外之货币（外币）进recognised at the rates of exchanges prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At 行的交易均按交易日期所适用汇率换算the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies 为功能货币记账。于各报告期末，以外are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items that are 币定值之货币项目均按报告期末所适用measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 汇率重新换算。按外币过往成本计量之非货币项目毋须重新换算。Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the 结算货币项目及重新换算货币项目所产retranslation of monetary items, are recognised in profit or loss in the period in 生的汇兑差额均于产生年度在损益确which they arise. 认。For the purposes of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets 就呈列综合财务报表而言，本集团海外and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated into the presentation 经营业务之资产及负债乃按各报告期末currency of the Group (i.e. HK$) using exchange rate prevailing at the end of each 所适用汇率换算为本公司之列账货币reporting period. Income and expenses items are translated at the average exchange （即港币），其收支项目乃按该期间之平rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during the period, 均汇率换算，惟在该期间的汇率大幅波in which case, the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions are used. 动的情形下，则按交易当日的现行汇率Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income 换算。所产生之汇兑差额（如有）乃确认and accumulated in equity under the heading of translation reserve (attributable to 于其他全面收益及累计至货币换算储备non-controlling interests as appropriate). （属于非控股权益（如适用））标题下之权益。On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest 出售境外业务时（即出售本集团于境外in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that 业务之全部权益、或出售涉及失去包括includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement 境外业务之附属公司之控制权、或出售or an associate that includes a foreign operation of which the retained interest 包括境外业务之合营安排或联营公司之becomes a financial asset), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in 部分权益（其保留权益成为一项金融资respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified 产）），所有就有关本公司拥有人应占业to profit or loss. 务于权益累计之汇兑差额重新分类至损益账。On all other partial disposals, which includes partial disposal of associates or 就所有其他部分出售（包括部分出售联joint ventures that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint 属公司或联营公司而不导致本集团失去control, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of exchange differences 重大影响力或共同控制权），确认于权recognised in the separate component of equity is reclassified to profit or loss. 益之个别项目之汇兑差额累计金额之按比例部分获重新分类至损益。Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets acquired arising on an 收购境外业务时产生获收购及识别资产acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of that foreign 之商誉及公平值调整按该境外业务的资operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of reporting 产及负债处理，并按报告期末当行汇率period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in the translation reserve. 换算。所产生汇兑差额确认于货币换算储备。126 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Inventories 存货Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost, which 存货按成本与可变现净值之间较低者列comprises all costs of purchase and, where applicable, cost of conversion and other 账。成本包括所有购买成本及（如适用）costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location 转换成本及使存货达致当前位置及状况and condition, is calculated using the weighted average cost method. Net realisable 所产生的其他成本，并以加权平均成本value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less 法计算。可变现净值即业务日常运作中the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the 估计售价减去估计完工成本及估计销售sale. 所需成本。When inventories are sold, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised 存货售出时，该等存货之账面值于确认as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recognised. The amount 相关收益同期间确认为开支。任何存货of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value and all losses of inventories 撇减至可变现净值的金额及所有存货亏are recognised as an expense in the period of the write-down or loss occurs. The 损于发生撇减或亏损期间确认为开支。amount of any reversal of any write-down of inventories is recognised as a reduction 任何拨回存货撇减于发生拨回同期间确in the amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the period in which the 认为扣减确认为开支之存货金额。reversal occurs.Fair value measurement 公平值计量Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 公平值为市场参与者间于计量日期进行transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 的有序交易中，出售资产所收取或转让measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that 负债所支付之价格。公平值计量乃基于the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the 假设出售资产或转让负债的交易于该资principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in 产或负债的主要市场（或在无主要市场the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most 的情况下，则于对该资产或负债最有利advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. The fair value of an asset 的市场）进行而作出。该主要或最有利or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use 的市场须为本集团可进入的市场。资产when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their 或负债的公平值乃采用市场参与者为资economic best interest. 产或负债定价时所用的假设计量，即假设市场参与者按其最佳经济利益行事。A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market 非金融资产的公平值计量计及市场参与participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest 者透过使用其资产的最高及最佳用途或and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset 透过将资产出售予将使用其最高及最佳in its highest and best use. 用途的另一名市场参与者而产生经济利益的能力。The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and 本集团采用在各情况下适当的估值技for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of 术，而其有足够资料可计量公平值，以relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. 尽量使用相关可观察输入数据及尽量避免使用不可观察输入数据。Annual Report 2021 年报 127IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Fair value measurement (continued) 公平值计量In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised 此外，就财务报告而言，公平值计量根into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 据公平值计量之输入数据可观察程度及measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value 输入数据对公平值计量之整体重要性分measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: 类为第一级、第二级或第三级，概述如下：• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for • 第一级 输入数据是实体于计identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the 量日期可以取得的相measurement date; 同资产或负债于活跃市场之报价（未经调整）；• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within • 第二级 输入数据是就资产或Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either 负债可直接或间接地directly or indirectly; and 观察之输入数据（第一级内计入的报价除外）；及• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. • 第三级 输入数据是资产或负债的不可观察输入数据。For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the consolidated financial statements 就按经常基准于财务报表确认的资产及on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred 负债而言，本集团透过于各报告期末重between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest 新评估分类（基于对公平值计量整体而level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of 言属重大的最低层输入数据）厘定各层each reporting period. 级之间有否出现转移。Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill 有形及无形资产之减值，不包括商誉At the end of the reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 于报告期末，本集团审阅其拥有有限使tangible and intangible assets with finite useful lives to determine whether there 用年期的有形及无形资产之账面值，以is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such 确定是否有任可迹象显示该等资产蒙受indication exists, the recoverable amount of the relevant asset is estimated in order 减值亏损。如出现任何有关迹象，则会to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). 估计相关资产之可收回金额，以决定减值亏损（如有）之程度。128 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill (continued) 有形及无形资产之减值，不包括商誉（续）The recoverable amount of tangible and intangible assets are estimated individually, 有形及无形资产的可收回金额个别估or when it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an asset 计。倘若不大可能个别估计资产的可收individually, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 回金额，则本集团估计资产所属创现单to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation 位的可收回金额。如分配的合理及一致can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating 基准可予识别，则公司资产亦被分配至units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units 个别创现单位，或于其他情况下彼等被for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. 分配至创现单位的最小组合，而该创现单位的合理及一致分配基准可予识别。Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in 可收回金额为公平值减去销售所需成本use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 及可使用价值之较高者。于评估可使用present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 价值时，将日后现金流之估值以一个能of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset (or a cash-generating 反映现时市场评估金钱时间价值及该资unit) for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. 产（或创现单位）之特有风险（而该风险并未在日后现金流之估值中作调整）的税前折扣率折现至其现值。If the recoverable amount of an asset (or a cash-generating unit) is estimated to be 倘一项资产（或一创现单位）之可收回金less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-generating 额估计少于其账面值，则该项资产（或unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. In allocating the impairment loss, the 一创现单位）之账面值将撇减至其可收impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill (if 回金额。于分配减值亏损时，减值亏损applicable) and then to the other assets on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying 将首先分配至削减任何商誉（如有）之账amount of each asset in the unit. The carrying amount of an asset is not reduced 面值，其后以该单位各项资产之账面值below the highest of its fair value less costs of disposal (if measurable), its value 为基准按比例分配到其他资产。资产账in use (if determinable) and zero. The amount of the impairment loss that would 面值不会降至低于其公平值减去出售成otherwise have been allocated to the asset is allocated pro-rata to the other assets 本（倘可计算）、其使用价值（倘可确定）of the unit. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 及零之最高者。分配至资产的减值亏损数额则按单位的其他资产比例分配。减值亏损会实时于损益确认。Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset 倘某项减值亏损其后拨回，则该项资产(or cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable （或创现单位）之账面值须增至其可回收amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 金额经修订后的估值，惟增加后之账面amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised 值不得超过假设该项资产（或一创现单for the asset (or a cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 位）于过往年度未有出现减值亏损所厘loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 定的账面值。减值亏损拨回实时确认在损益中。Annual Report 2021 年报 129IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill (continued) 有形及无形资产之减值，不包括商誉（续）The accounting policy for recognition of the impairment loss for goodwill is stated in 有关确认商誉之减值亏损之会计政策载the accounting policy for goodwill in the earlier part of this note. 于本附注较前部分商誉之会计政策。Borrowing costs 借款成本Borrowing costs incurred, net of any investment income on the temporary 收购、建造或生产合资格资产（即需要investment of the specific borrowings, that are directly attributable to the acquisition, 一段颇长时间始能达至其拟定用途或出construction or production of qualifying assets, i.e. assets that necessarily take a 售的资产）应占的所产生借款成本（扣除substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as 具体借款用作短暂投资赚取的任何投资part of the cost of those assets. Capitalisation of such borrowing costs ceases when 收入），拨充为该等资产之部分成本。the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. All other borrowing 该等借款成本于有关资产大体上可作其costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 拟定用途或出售时不再拨充作资本。所有其他借款成本于产生期间支销。Provisions and contingent liabilities 拨备及或有负债Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive 当本集团因过去的事件需承担当前法律obligation as a result of past events, when it is probable that an outflow of resources 或推定责任，而很可能需要以代表经济embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a 利益的资源流出抵偿此等责任，且有关reliable estimate of the amount of obligation can be made. Expenditures for which 责任金额可予可靠估计时，则确认拨a provision has been recognised are charged against the related provision in the 备。就已确认拨备之开支于产生有关开period in which the expenditures are incurred. Provisions are reviewed at the end of 支期间自相关拨备扣除。拨备于各报告each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Where the 期末获检讨，并予调整以反映目前最佳effect of the time value of money is material, the amount provided is the present 估计。如金钱的时间值构成重大影响，value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. Where 所计提拨备为抵偿有关责任所需支付the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as 的费用现值。如本集团预期拨备会获报a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. 销，则仅在实质上确认报销时将报销确认为独立资产。Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or 倘不大可能需要经济利益流出，或不能the amount cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a contingent 可靠估计有关金额，除非经济利益流出liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible 可能性非常低，否则有关责任会披露为obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non- 或然负债。有可能需承担的责任（即一occurrence of one or more future events are also disclosed as contingent liabilities 项或多项未来事件发生或不发生时方确unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. 立存有责任），除非经济利益流出可能性非常低，否则亦会披露为或然负债。130 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Government grants 政府补贴Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable 倘有合理保证将可获得政府补贴，且符assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied 合所有附带条件，则补贴可按公平值确with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over 认。倘补贴与开支项目有关，则在必须the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that 将补贴于拟补偿的成本支出期间有系统it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is 地确认为收入。当补贴与某项资产相关recognised as a deduction from the carrying amount of the relevant asset and is 时，公平值自资产账面值扣除并按相关released to profit or loss over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal 资产之预期可使用年期每年等额转拨至annual instalments. 损益。Leases 租赁The Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at inception of 本集团于合约开始时评核合约是否属于the contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right 或包含租赁。倘合约赋予权利于一段时to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 间内控制已识别资产的用途以换取代consideration. 价，则该合约为租赁或包含租赁。As lessee 作为承租人The Group applies the recognition exemption to short-term leases and low-value 本集团对短期租赁及低价值租赁确认豁asset leases. Lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an 免。与该等租赁相关的租赁付款以直线expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 法按租期确认为开支。The Group has elected not to separate non-lease components from lease 本集团已选择不将非租赁成分与租赁成components, and accounts for each lease component and any associated non-lease 分分拆，而是将每项租赁成分与任何相components as a single lease component. 关非租赁成分以单一租赁部分入账。The Group accounts for each lease component within a lease contract as a lease 本集团对租赁合约中每项租赁成分独立separately. The Group allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease 记账为租赁。本集团根据租赁成分之相component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price of the lease component 对独立价格及（如适用）非租赁成分之相and, where applicable, the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components. 对独立价格总额将合约代价分配至各租赁成分。Amounts payable by the Group that do not give rise to a separate component are 不会产生独立成分的本集团应付金额视considered to be part of the total consideration that is allocated to the separately 作分配至合约独立获识别成分之代价总identified components of the contract. 额一部分。Annual Report 2021 年报 131IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessee (continued) 作为承租人（续）The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the commencement 本集团于租赁开始时确认使用权资产及date of the lease. 租赁负债。The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises: 使用权资产初步按成本计量，其包括：(a) the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability; (a) 租赁负债之初步计量金额；(b) any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any (b) 于开始日期或之前作出之任何租lease incentives received; 赁付款，减任何已收租赁优惠；(c) any initial direct costs incurred by the Group; and (c) 本集团产生之任何初步直接成本；及(d) an estimate of costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling and removing (d) 本集团于拆除及拆迁相关资产、the underlying asset, restoring the site on which it is located or restoring the 复原相关资产所在场地或复原相underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the 关资产至租赁条款及条件所规定lease, unless those costs are incurred to produce inventories. 之状况时估计所产生之成本（除非该等成本为生产存货而产生）。Subsequently, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost less any accumulated 其后，使用权资产按成本计量，减任何depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses and adjusted for any 累计折旧及减值亏损，并就租赁负债之remeasurement of the lease liability. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis 任何重新计量作出调整。折旧以直线法over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets. 按租期与资产之估计可使用年期之间较短者计提。If a property held by the Group as a right-of-use asset and occupied by the Group 本集团持作使用权资产之物业及本集团as an owner-occupied property becomes an investment property. The accounting 占用作为业主占用物业之物业成为投资policy for investment properties is stated in the earlier part of this note. The Group 物业。投资物业的会计政策于本附注的presents right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of investment property as 较前部分进行了说明。本集团于综合财a separate line item on the consolidated statement of financial position. Right-of-use 务状况表中将不符合投资物业定义之使assets that meet the definition of investment property is presented within “Investment 用权资产呈列为单独项目。符合投资物properties”. 业定义的使用权资产于“投资物业”内呈列。132 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessee (continued) 作为承租人（续）The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that 租赁负债初步按于合约开始日期未支付are not paid at the commencement date of the contract. 租赁付款现值计量。The lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the 计量租赁负债计及的租赁付款包括就开following payments for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term 始日期未支付相关资产之使用权之下列that are not paid at the commencement date: 款项：(a) fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease (a) 固定付款（包括实质固定付款）减incentives receivable; 任何应收租赁优惠；(b) variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate; (b) 随指数或利率浮动之可变租赁付款；(c) amounts expected to be payable under residual value guarantees; (c) 根据残余值保证预期应付款项；(d) exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to (d) 购买权行使价（倘本集团合理确定exercise that option; and 会行使该选择权）；及(e) payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the (e) 为终止租赁而支付之罚金（倘租赁Group exercising an option to terminate the lease. 条款反映正行使终止租赁之选择权）。The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or 租赁付款采用租赁隐含利率贴现或（倘where it is not readily determinable, the incremental borrowing rate of the lessee. 不能容易厘定）承租人之递增借款率。Subsequently, the lease liability is measured by increasing the carrying amount to 其后，租赁负债之计量方法为增加账面reflect interest on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect 值以反映租赁负债之利息及扣减账面值the lease payments made. 以反映所作租赁付款。The lease liability is remeasured using a revised discount rate when there are 如租期变动或重新评核本集团是否合理changes to the lease payments arising from a change in the lease term or the 确定行使购买权、续约权或终止权而产reassessment of whether the Group will be reasonably certain to exercise a 生租赁付款变动，则租赁负债采用经修purchase, extension or termination option. 订贴现率重新计量。Annual Report 2021 年报 133IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessee (continued) 作为承租人（续）The lease liability is remeasured by using the original discount rate when there is 如残余值保证、实质固定付款或未来租a change in the residual value guarantee, the in-substance fixed lease payments or 赁付款因指数或利率变动（浮动息率除the future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or a rate (other than 外）而出现变动，则租赁负债采用原有floating interest rate). In case of a change in future lease payments resulting from 贴现率重新计量。如浮动息率变动导致a change in floating interest rates, the Group remeasures the lease liability using a 未来租赁付款变动，则本集团采用经修revised discount rate. 订贴现率重新计量租赁负债。The Group recognises the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an 本集团将重新计量租赁负债金额确认为adjustment to the right-of-use asset. If the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset 对使用权资产作出调整。倘使用权资产is reduced to zero and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease 之账面值减至零，且租赁负债计量进一liability, the Group recognises any remaining amount of the remeasurement in profit 步减少，则本集团将任何重新计量之剩or loss. 余金额确认于损益。A lease modification is accounted for as a separate lease if: 在下列情况下，租赁修订按独立租赁记账：(a) the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use (a) 修订透过增加一项或以上相关资one or more underlying assets; and 产之使用权增加租赁范围；及(b) the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate (b) 租赁代价以增加范围单独价格相with the stand-alone price for the increase in scope and any appropriate 等金额及为反映具体合约情况之adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of the 任何适当单独价格调整的幅度增particular contract. 加。When a lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease, at the effective 如租赁修订并非按独立租赁记账，则于date of the lease modification, 租赁修订生效日期，(a) the Group allocates the consideration in the modified contract on the basis (a) 本集团按上述相对单独价格基准of relative stand-alone price as described above. 分配经修订合约的代价。(b) the Group determines the lease term of the modified contract. (b) 本集团确定经修订合约的租期。(c) the Group remeasures the lease liability by discounting the revised lease (c) 本集团透过采用经修订贴现率按payments using a revised discount rate over the revised lease term. 经修订租期贴现经修订租赁付款重新计量租赁负债。134 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessee (continued) 作为承租人（续）(d) for lease modifications that decrease the scope of the lease, the Group (d) 就减少租赁范围之租赁修订，本accounts for the remeasurement of the lease liability by decreasing the 集团透过扣减使用权资产之账面carrying amount of the right-of-use asset to reflect the partial or full 值以反映租赁部分或全面终止，termination of the lease and recognising any gain or loss relating to the partial 并将任何与租赁部分或全面终止or full termination of the lease in profit or loss. 相关之收益或亏损确认于损益，将重新计量租赁负债记账。(e) for all other lease modifications, the Group accounts for the remeasurement (e) 就所有其他租赁修订，本集团透of the lease liability by making a corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use 过对使用权资产作相应调整将重asset. 新计量租赁负债记账。The Group has applied the practical expedient provided in Amendments to HKFRS 本集团已应用香港财务报告准则第16号16: COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions, which has been early adopted by the （修订本）：与COVID-19相关的租金优Group since the year ended 31 December 2020, and does not assess whether 惠中载明的可行权益方法（本集团已自eligible rent concessions occurring as a direct consequence of the COVID-19 截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度pandemic are lease modification. The Group accounts for any change in lease 起提早采纳），且不评估因COVID-19疫payments resulting from the rent concession the same way it would account for the 情直接产生的合资格租金优惠是否为租change applying HKFRS 16 if the change were not a lease modification. 赁修订。本集团将租金优惠导致租赁付款的任何变动入账的方式与其采用香港财务报告准则第16号产生的变动入账的方式相同，前提为有关变动并非租赁修订。The practical expedient applies only to rent concessions occurring as a direct 该可行权宜方法仅适用于COVID-19疫consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic and only if all of the following conditions 情直接产生的租金优惠及满足以下所有are met: 条件的租金优惠：(a) the change in lease payments results in revised consideration for the lease (a) 租赁付款变动引致的经修订租赁that is substantially the same as, or less than, the consideration for the lease 代价大致上等同或低于紧接变动immediately preceding the change; 前的租赁代价；(b) any reduction in lease payments affects only payments originally due on or (b) 租赁付款的任何减少仅影响原定before 30 June 2021; and 于二零二一年六月三十日或之前到期的款项；及(c) there is no substantive change to other terms and conditions of the lease. (c) 租赁的其他条款及条件并无实质变动。Annual Report 2021 年报 135IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessee (continued) 作为承租人（续）The Group has applied the practical expedient consistently to all eligible rent 本集团已就具有类似特点及于类似情况concessions with similar characteristics and in similar circumstances. 下的所有合资格租金优惠一致采用可行权益方法。As lessor 作为出租人The Group classifies each of its leases as either a finance lease or an operating lease 本集团于租赁开始日期将每项租赁分类at the inception date of the lease. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers 为融资租赁或经营租赁。倘租赁实际上substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. 将相关资产所有权附带的所有风险及回All other leases are classified as operating leases. 报转移，则获分类为融资租赁。所有其他租赁获分类为经营租赁。When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and 如本集团为中间出租人，则将首租与分sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as an operating lease if 租记账为两项独立合约。倘首租为本集the head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group has applied the recognition 团应用确认豁免之短期租赁，则分租获exemption. Otherwise, the sublease is classified as a finance lease or an operating 分类为经营租赁。否则，分租经参考首lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. 租产生之使用权资产获分类为融资租赁或经营租赁。The Group accounts for each lease component within a lease contract as a lease 本集团对租赁合约中每项租赁成分记账separately from non-lease components of the contract. The Group allocates the 为与该合约之非租赁成分独立之租赁。consideration in the contract to each lease component on a relative stand-alone 本集团按相对独立价格基准将合约代价price basis. 分配至各租赁成分。As lessor – finance lease 作为出租人－融资租赁Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at 根据融资租赁应收承租人之款项按本集the amount of the Group’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is 团于有关租赁之投资净额记账为应收款allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on 项。融资租赁收入以反映本集团就租赁the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. The Group applies 之投资净额收取固定定期回报率分配至the derecognition and impairment requirements in HKFRS 9 to the net investment 会计期间。本集团对融资租赁之投资净in the finance lease. 额应用香港财务报告准则第9号之终止确认及减值规定。136 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessor (continued) 作为出租人（续）As lessor – finance lease (continued) 作为出租人－融资租赁（续）The Group accounts for a modification to a finance lease as a separate lease if both: 在下列情况均出现时，本集团对融资租赁修订记账为独立租赁：(a) the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use (a) 修订透过增加一项或以上相关资one or more underlying assets; and 产之使用权增加租赁范围；及(b) the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate (b) 租赁代价以增加范围单独价格相with the stand-alone price for the increase in scope and any appropriate 等金额及为反映具体合约情况之adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of the 任何适当单独价格调整的幅度增particular contract. 加。For a modification to a finance lease that is not accounted for as a separate lease, 就并非记账为独立租赁之融资租赁修the Group accounts for the modification as follows: 订，本集团按以下方式将修订记账：(a) if the lease would have been classified as an operating lease had the (a) 倘修订于开始日期已生效，租赁modification been in effect at the inception date, the Group: 即会获分类为经营租赁，则本集团：(i) accounts for the lease modification as a new lease from the effective (i) 自修订生效日期将租赁修date of the modification; and 订记账为新订租赁；及(ii) measures the carrying amount of the underlying asset as the net (ii) 计量相关资产之账面值，investment in the lease immediately before the effective date of the 作为紧接租赁修订日期前lease modification. 对租赁之投资净额。(b) otherwise, the Group applies the requirements of HKFRS 9. (b) 否则，本集团应用香港财务报告准则第9号之规定。Annual Report 2021 年报 137IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Leases (continued) 租赁（续）As lessor (continued) 作为出租人（续）As lessor – operating lease 作为出租人－经营租赁The Group applies the derecognition and impairment requirements in HKFRS 9 to 本集团对经营租赁之应收款项应用香港the operating lease receivables. 财务报告准则第9号之终止确认及减值规定。A modification to an operating lease is accounted for as a new lease from the 经营租赁修订自修订生效日期记账为新effective date of the modification, considering any prepaid or accrued lease 订租赁，并将与原有租赁相关之任何预payments relating to the original lease as part of the lease payments for the new 付或应计租赁付款计作新订租赁之部分lease. 租赁付款。Employee benefits 雇员福利Short-term employee benefits 短期雇员福利Short-term employee benefits are recognised at the undiscounted amount of the 短期雇员福利乃按雇员提供服务时预期benefits expected to be paid as and when employees rendered the services. All 将予支付之未贴现福利金额确认。所有short-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense unless another HKFRS 短期雇员福利均确认为开支，除非香港requires or permits the inclusion of the benefit in the cost of an asset. 财务报告准则要求或允许将福利计入资产的成本。A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees (such as wages and 雇员之应计福利（例如工资及薪金、年salaries, annual leave and sick leave) after deducting any amount already paid. 假及病假）乃于扣减任何已付金额后确认负债。Retirement benefit costs 退休福利费用Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans, Mandatory Provident 向界定供款退休金计划、强制性公积金Fund Scheme and state-managed retirement benefits scheme (together referred 计划及国家管理退休褔利计划（统称“退to the “Retirement Schemes”) are recognised as expenses when employees have 休计划”）之供款乃当雇员提供相关可获rendered service entitling them to the contributions. 得该供款之服务时确认为支出。138 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Taxation 税项Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred 所得税开支指即期应付税项及递延税项tax. 之总和。The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit 即期应付税项乃按本期应课税溢利计differs from loss before taxation as reported in the consolidated statement of profit 算。应课税溢利与综合损益及其他全面or loss and other comprehensive income because of income or expense that are 收益表中所报的除税前亏损不同，乃由taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. 于前者不包括其他年度之应课税或可扣The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 税的收入或开支，并且不包括毋须课税enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 或不能扣税之项目。本集团之即期税项负债乃采用于报告期末已实施或实质上已实施之税率计算。Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts 递延税项乃按综合财务报表内资产及负of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding 债账面值与计算应课税溢利所用相应税tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are 基之差额而确认。递延税项负债一般会generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are 就所有应课税暂时差额确认，而递延税generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that 项资产一般会就所有可扣税暂时差额在it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible 很大机会出现应课税溢利而可用以抵销temporary differences can be utilised. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 可扣减暂时差额时确认。倘暂时差额自recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition (other than 不影响应课税溢利或会计溢利之交易的in a business combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither 资产及负债之初步确认（业务合并除外）the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. In addition, deferred tax liabilities are 而产生，则不会确认该等递延税项资产not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of 及负债。此外，若暂时差额是源自商誉goodwill. 之首次确认，则不确认递延税项负债。Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary difference associated 递延税项负债就附属公司的投资所产生with investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the 之应课税暂时差额确认入账，惟本集团reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference 可控制暂时差额之拨回而暂时差额不大will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible 可能于可预见将来拨回则除外。与该等temporary differences associated with such investments are only recognised to the 投资相关之可扣税暂时差额所产生之递extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to 延税项资产仅于很大机会有足够应课税utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in 溢利可以使用暂时差额之利益且预计于the foreseeable future. 可见将来可予拨回时确认。Annual Report 2021 年报 139IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Taxation (continued) 税项（续）The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of the reporting 递延税项资产之账面值于报告期末检period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 讨，并于不大可能再有足够应课税溢利profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 去扣减该项资产之全部或部分之情况作出调减。Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to 递延税项资产及负债按预期于偿还负债apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on 或资产变现期间适用之税率计算，而有tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end 关税率之基准为于报告期末已实施或实of the reporting period. 质上已实施之税率（及税法）。The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences 递延税项负债及资产之计量反映本集团that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the 预期于报告期末收回或偿还资产及负债reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. 账面值所产生之税务后果。Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate 即期及递延税项于损益确认，惟当与于to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in 其他全面收益或直接于权益确认之项目which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive 有关之情况下，即期及递延税项则同样income or directly in equity, respectively. 分别于其他全面收益或直接于权益中确认。Related parties 关联方A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group. 关联方为与本集团有关联的人士或实体。(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group if (a) 在下列情况下，有关人士或该人that person: 士之直系亲属视为与本集团有关联：(i) has control or joint control over the Group; (i) 拥有或与他人共同拥有本集团的控制权；(ii) has significant influence over the Group; or (ii) 对本集团发挥重大影响力；或(iii) is a member of the key management personnel of the Group or of the (iii) 为本集团或其控股公司主holding company of the Group. 要管理人员的其中一名成员。140 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Related parties (continued) 关联方（续）(b) An entity is related to the Group if any of the following conditions applies: (b) 在有关实体符合下列任何一项条件情况下，有关实体视为与本集团有关联：(i) the entity and the Group are members of the same group (which (i) 该实体与本集团属同一集means that each holding company, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary is 团（即各控股公司、附属公related to the others). 司及同系附属公司）之成员公司。(ii) one entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an (ii) 一间实体为其他实体之一associate or joint venture of a member of a group of which the other 间联营公司或合营公司（或entity is a member). 其他实体之同系附属公司之联营公司或合营公司）。(iii) both entities are joint ventures of the same third party. (iii) 两间实体均为同一第三方之合营公司。(iv) one entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an (iv) 一间实体为第三方实体之associate of the third entity. 合营公司而另一实体为该第三方实体之联营公司。(v) the entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of (v) 该实体为本集团或一间与employees of either the Group or an entity related to the Group. 本集团有关联之实体就雇If the Group is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also 员的福利而设的离职福利related to the Group. 计划。倘本集团本身为该计划，则资助雇主亦与本集团有关联。(vi) the entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a). (vi) 该实体受(a)项所识别人士控制或受共同控制。(vii) a person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or (vii) 于(a)(i)项所识别人士对实is a member of the key management personnel of the entity (or of a 体有重大影响或属该实体holding company of the entity). （或该实体控股公司）主要管理人员的其中一名成员。(viii) the entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides (viii) 实体或其所属集团旗下任key management personnel services to the Group or to the holding 何成员公司向本集团或本company of the Group. 集团母公司提供主要管理人员服务。Annual Report 2021 年报 141IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 4. 主要会计政策（续）Related parties (continued) 关联方（续）Close members of the family of a person are those family members who may be 有关人士之家族近亲为可预期在与有关expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person in their dealings with the 实体交易时影响有关人士或受有关人士entity and include: 影响，包括：(a) that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner; (a) 有关人士之子女及配偶或同居伴侣；(b) children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and (b) 有关人士之配偶或同居伴侣的子女；及(c) dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or domestic partner. (c) 有关人士或有关人士之配偶或同居伴侣的受养人。In the definition of a related party, an associate includes subsidiaries of the associate 就关联方定义而言，联系人包括联系人and a joint venture includes subsidiaries of the joint venture. 之附属公司，及合营公司包括合营公司之附属公司。Segment reporting 分部汇报Operating segments, and the amounts of each segment item reported in the 经营分部及综合财务报表所汇报的各分consolidated financial statements, are identified from the financial information 部项目金额取自向本集团最高行政管理provided regularly to Group’s most senior executive management for the purpose 人员定期汇报以便其向本集团各业务及of allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, the Group’s various 区域分配资源以及评估该等业务及区域lines of business and geographical locations. 表现的财务资料。Individual material operating segments are not aggregated for financial reporting 个别重大经营分部不会为财务报告而合purposes unless the segments have similar economic characteristics and are similar in 并，除非相关分部具有类似的经济特respect of the nature of products and services, the nature of production processes, 征，且产品及服务性质、生产流程性the type or class of customers, the methods used to distribute the products or 质、客户类型或类别、分销产品或提供provide the services, and the nature of the regulatory environment. Operating 服务所用方法及监管环境的性质相似。segments which are not individually material may be aggregated if they share a 符合上述多数标准的非个别重大经营分majority of these criteria. 部可予合并。Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting 经营分部与向主要营运决策人（“主要营provided to the chief operating decision-maker (“CODM”). The Company’s 运决策人”）内部汇报一致方式汇报。本executive directors and the chief executive officer, who is responsible for allocating 公司之执行董事及首席执行官负责分配资resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, have been 源及评估经营分部表现，并已获识别为identified as the CODM that make strategic decisions. 作策略性决定的主要营运决策人。142 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度5. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES 5. 估计涉及不确定性的主要来源In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 4 在应用综合财务报表附注4所述本集团to the consolidated financial statements, the management of the Group is required 会计政策时，本集团管理层须就不容易to make various estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets 从其他来源中明显辨别出的资产及负债and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 的账面值作出多项估计及假设。该等估associated assumptions are based on historical experiences, and other factors that 计及相关假设乃基于过往经验及其他相are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 关因素而作出。实际结果或会与该等估计不同。The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. 估计及相关假设乃按持续基准作检讨。Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate 倘会计估计的修订仅影响估计作出修订is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and 的期间，则修订于该期间内确认，或倘future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 修订影响本期间或未来期间，则修订于作出修订期间及未来期间内确认。The followings are the key assumptions concerning the future, and key sources of 以下是有关将来的主要假设与及其他于estimation uncertainties at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant 报告期末不确定性的估计的主要来源，risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 可能构成于下一个财政报告期间需就资within the next financial reporting period. 产及负债账面值作出重大调整之重大风险。Going concern basis 持续经营基准As disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the consolidated 诚如综合财务报表附注2所披露，综合financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The 财务报表乃按持续经营基准编制。持续appropriateness of the going concern basis is assessed after taking into consideration 经营基准是否适当，乃经考虑有关本集all relevant available information about future of the Group, including cash flow 团未来之所有相关及可取阅资料（包括forecasts of the Group and financial support from Huaneng and its controlling 本集团之现金流预测及华能及其控股股shareholder. Such measures inherently involve uncertainties. The future outcome 东之财务支持）后作评估。该等措施本of aforesaid events and conditions could differ significantly and hence render the 质上涉及不确定性。上述事项及情况之adoption of the going concern basis inappropriate. 未来结果可能大有径庭，致使采用持续经营基准不再适当。Annual Report 2021 年报 143IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度5. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES (continued) 5. 估计涉及不确定性的主要来源（续）Discount rates for calculating lease liabilities – as lessee 用于计算租赁负债之贴现率－作为承租人The Group uses the lessee’s incremental borrowing rates to discount future lease 由于租赁隐含利率不容易厘定，本集团payments since interest rates implicit in the leases are not readily determinable. 使用承租人之递增借款率贴现未来租赁In determining the discounts rates for its leases, the Group refers to a rate that is 付款。本集团于厘定租赁之贴现率时参readily observable as the starting point and then applies judgement and adjusts such 考容易观察的利率作为起点，其后应用observable rate to determine the incremental borrowing rate. 判断调整该可观察利率，以厘定递增借款率。Impairment of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and right-of- 物业、机器及设备、投资物业以及使用use assets 权资产减值The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for property, 本集团于报告期末评估物业、机器及设plant and equipment, investment properties and right-of-use assets at the end of 备、投资物业及使用权资产是否出现减the reporting period. Assets are tested for impairment when there are indicators 值迹象。如有迹象显示账面值未必可收that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment exists when the 回，则对资产进行减值测试。如某一项carrying value of an asset or assets group exceeds its recoverable amount, which is 资产或资产组别之账面值超出其可收回the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use. For property, 金额（即公平值减出售成本与使用价值plant and equipment, the fair value less costs of disposal was determined by the 之间较高者），则存在减值。就物业、management of the Group using the depreciated replacement cost approach and/ 机器及设备而言，公平值减出售成本由or market comparable approach, as appropriate. Fair value which is determined 本集团管理层采用折旧重置成本法及╱by using depreciated replacement cost approach requires an estimation of new 或市场可比较法厘定（视乎适用）。透过replacement cost of the assets from which deductions are then made to allow for 采用折旧重置成本法厘定公平值需估计physical deterioration and all forms of obsolescence and optimisation. The fair value 有关资产之新重置成本，再从中作出扣using market comparable approach is based on available data from binding sales 减，以计及老化及所有形式的陈旧及优transactions in an arm’s length transaction of similar assets or observable market 化。采用市场可比较法厘定公平值乃根prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. For investment properties 据来自对类似资产进行公平且具约束力and right-of-use assets, the determination of the fair value less costs of disposal was 销售交易之可查阅数据或可观察市价，based on income capitalisation approach which involves estimations and assumptions 减除出售有关资产之递增成本。就投资in determining rental income derived from market participant’s perspective with 物业及使用权资产而言，于以合适的资appropriate capitalisation rate. 本化比率厘定市场参与者产生的租金收入时，公平值减出售成本乃根据收入资本化法厘定，其涉及估计及假设。144 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度5. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES (continued) 5. 估计涉及不确定性的主要来源（续）Allowance for inventories 存货拨备The management of the Group reviews the ageing and conditions of the inventories 本集团管理层于报告期末检讨存货的账at the end of the reporting period and assess the adequacy of the impairment 龄及状况，并评估因市场状况及技术改provision for those inventories which are obsolete or/and slow-moving identified 变而不再适合生产或在市场上销售的陈as no longer suitable for use in production nor saleable in the market as a result 旧或╱及呆滞存货的减值准备是否充of change in the market conditions and technology. Estimation of net realisable 足。存货可变现值的估算涉及对存货项value of inventory involves judgement on the conditions and usefulness of items of 目的状况及有用情况的判断。倘可变现inventories. Where the expectation on the net realisable value is lower than the 净值预计低于若干项目的成本时，可能cost for certain items, a write-off or write-down of inventories may arise. 会产生存货撇销或撇减。Loss allowance for ECL on trade receivables 应收账款预期信贷亏损之亏损拨备The Group recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables, using a provision matrix 本集团使用基于本集团过往信贷亏损经based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are 验的拨备矩阵确认应收账款之全期预期specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the 信贷亏损，并就债务人特有之因素、总current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date. The 体经济状况及对报告日期状况之当前amount of the loss allowance based on ECL model is measured as the difference 及预测方向之评估作出调整。基于预期between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance with 信贷亏损模式之亏损拨备金额乃作为根the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at 据合约应付本集团之所有合约现金流量the effective interest rate determined at initial recognition. Where the future flows 与本集团预期收取并按初步确认时厘定are less than expected or being revised downward due to changes in facts and 之实际利率折现之所有现金流量之间之circumstances, a material impairment loss may arise. In addition, trade receivables 差额计量。倘未来流量低于预期，或因with credit-impaired are assessed for ECL individually. 事实及情况变动而被调低，则可能产生重大减值亏损。此外，产生信贷减值之应收账款之预期信贷亏损乃个别进行评估。Annual Report 2021 年报 145IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION 6. 收益及分部资料Revenue represents the amounts received and receivable for goods sold by 收益代表本集团向外部企业客户出售产the Group to outside corporate customers, net of sales related taxes. Revenue 品而已收及应收之款项，扣除相关销售represents mainly Oregon Scientific branded sales (“Branded Sales”) and original 税。收益主要代表Oregon Scientific品牌equipment manufacturer and original design manufacturer sales (“OEM/ODM 销售（“品牌销售”）及原设备制造及原设Sales”). The revenue is disaggregated below: 计制造销售（“原设备制造╱原设计制造销售”）。收益分解如下：Smart learning, Connectedand immersive home and Health andtechnology communications wellness Others Total智能教育与学习 智能家居 健康及保健 其他 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度Timing of revenue recognition 收益确认的时间A t a point in time 于某时间点 5. 9 6. 4 0. 9 3. 9 17. 1Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度Timing of revenue recognition 收益确认的时间At a point in time 于某时间点 24.7 19.5 6.0 5.2 55.4146 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部资料（续）Performance obligations for contracts with customers 就客户签订合约之履约责任Sales of goods (revenue recognised at a point in time) 商品销售（于某时间点确认的收益）The Group sells various consumer electronic products to corporate customers. 本集团向企业客户销售各种电子消费产Revenue is recognised when control of the goods has transferred, being when the 品。收益在货物控制权转移时确认，即goods have been shipped to the customer’s specific location (delivery). Following 货物已装运至客户的特定地点（交付）。delivery, the customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price 交付后，客户可以完全自行决定销售商to sell the goods, has the primary responsibility when on selling the goods and bears 品的分销方式和价格，在销售商品时承the risks of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods. The normal credit term 担主要责任，并承担与货物相关的陈for customers is normally up to 45 days upon delivery or payment in advance is 旧和亏损的风险。客户的正常信贷期通normally required. 常至多为交付后45天，或通常须提前付款。During the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020, all performance obligations 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月for sales of goods are for period of one year or less. As permitted under HKFRS 15, 三十一日止年度，所有销售商品的履约the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations as at the end 责任期为一年或以下。如香港财务报告of the reporting period is not disclosed. 准则第15号所允许，于各报告期末获分配至未履行履约责任的交易价格不予披露。HKFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the 香港财务报告准则第8号“经营分部”规basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed 定以本集团之执行董事及首席执行官（即by the executive directors and chief executive officer, being the CODM, in order 主要营运决策人）在对分部作资源分配to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance. The Group 及评估其表现上所定期审阅的有关本集operates in four operating and reportable segments, namely smart learning and 团不同部门之内部报告作为确定经营分immersive technology, connected home and communications, health and wellness as 部之基准。本集团经营四个经营及可well as others. 报告分部，即智能教育与学习、智能家居、健康及保健以及其他。Annual Report 2021 年报 147IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部资料（续）Segment revenue and results 分部收益及业绩The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by operating and 本集团按营运及须汇报分部之收益及业reportable segments: 绩分析如下：Smart learning, Connectedand immersive home and Health andtechnology communications wellness Others Total智能教育与学习智能家居 健康及保健 其他 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度Segment revenue 分部收益Branded sales 品牌销售 5.9 6.4 0.1 0.1 12.5OEM/ODM sales 原设备制造╱原设计制造销售 – – 0.8 3.8 4.6Total segment revenue 分部收益总额 5. 9 6. 4 0. 9 3. 9 17. 1Segment loss 分部亏损 (3.5) (3.8) (5.1) (26.1) (38.5)Unallocated income 未经分配之收入 6.6Unallocated expenses 未经分配之开支 (45.6)F inance costs 融资成本 (6. 7)Loss before taxation 除税前亏损 (84. 2)Smart learning, Connectedand immersive home and Health andtechnology communications wellness Others Total智能教育与学习智能家居 健康及保健 其他 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度Segment revenue 分部收益Branded sales 品牌销售 24.7 6.0 – – 30.7OEM/ODM sales 原设备制造╱原设计制造销售 – 13.5 6.0 5.2 24.7Total segment revenue 分部收益总额 24.7 19.5 6.0 5.2 55.4Segment loss 分部亏损 (9.8) (29.5) (12.1) (10.3) (61.7)Unallocated income 未经分配之收入 16.2Unallocated expenses 未经分配之开支 (47.1)Finance costs 融资成本 (3.2)Loss before taxation 除税前亏损 (95.8)148 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部资料（续）Segment revenue and results (continued) 分部收益及业绩（续）Segment revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external 上文所呈告之分部收益代表向外部客户customers. There were no inter-segment sales for both years. 销售的收益。两个年度均无分部间之销售。Segment loss represents the loss incurred by each segment without allocation 分部亏损指各分部所产生之亏损，不包of interest income, income from subleasing of right-of-use assets, sales of scrap, 括利息收入、分租使用权资产之收入、other miscellaneous income, unallocated expense such as central administrative 销售废料收入、其他杂项收入、未经分costs, charge of loss allowance on financial assets, provision for losses on litigations, 配之开支，如总部行政成本、扣除金融depreciation of right-of-use assets, losses from impairment on right-of-use 资产亏损拨备、诉讼亏损拨备、使用权assets, investment properties and finance costs. This is the measure reported to 资产折旧、使用权资产减值亏损、投资the Group’s CODM, for the purposes of resource allocation and performance 物业及融资成本作出的分配。此为向本assessment. 集团主要营运决策人就资源分配及表现评估作报告之计量方式。No segment assets and segment liabilities are presented as such amounts are 由于本集团之分部资产及分部负债并未not reviewed by the Group’s CODM for the purpose of resource allocation and 由本集团之主要营运决策人审阅以分配performance assessment or otherwise regularly provided to the Group’s CODM. 资源及评估表现或以其他方式定期呈交本集团之主要营运决策人，故并无呈列该等资料。Annual Report 2021 年报 149IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部资料（续）Other segment information 其他分部资料Smart learning, Connectedand immersive home and Health andtechnology communications wellness Others Total智能教育与学习 智能家居 健康及保健 其他 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度Amounts included in the measure of 分部溢利或亏损计入segment profit or loss: 下列款额：Depreciation and amortisation 折旧及摊销– Property, plant and equipment －物业、机器及设备 1.0 0.9 0.1 0.5 2.5Impairment loss on advances 预付供应商款项之to suppliers 减值亏损 – – 0.3 1.6 1.9R eversal of write-down of inventories 存货撇减拨回 (0.7) (0.7) (0.1) (0.4) (1.9)Smart learning, Connectedand immersive home and Health andtechnology communications wellness Others Total智能教育与学习 智能家居 健康及保健 其他 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度Amounts included in the measure of 分部溢利或亏损计入segment profit or loss: 下列款额：Depreciation and amortisation 折旧及摊销– Property, plant and equipment －物业、机器及设备 3.6 2.8 0.9 0.8 8.1W rite-down of inventories 存货撇减 2.0 1.6 0.5 0.4 4.5150 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部资料（续）Geographical information 地区资料The Group’s operations are located in Asia Pacific, Europe and Americas 本集团之业务位于亚太区、欧洲及美洲(representing the United States of America and Latin America). The Group carries （指美利坚合众国及拉丁美洲）。本集团out its manufacturing and trading operations in Hong Kong and the People’s 于香港及中华人民共和国（“中国”）进Republic of China (the “PRC”). The Group also operates marketing offices in 行制造及进行贸易业务。本集团亦在欧Europe, Americas and other Asia Pacific countries. 洲、美洲及其他亚太区国家设有市场推广办事处。Information about the Group’s revenue from external customers is presented based 有关本集团来自外界客户收益的资料乃on the location of customers are detailed below: 根据客户所在地呈列，详情如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元The PRC (country of domicile) 中国（居住国） 0.7 7.0Asia Pacific (excluding the PRC) 亚太区（不包括中国） 5.6 18.8Americas 美洲 6.5 13.9Europe 欧洲 3.6 15.3O thers 其 他 0.7 0.417.1 55.4Over 95% (2020: 95%) of non-current assets of the Group are located in the PRC. 本集团之逾95%（二零二零年：95%）非流动资产位于中国。Annual Report 2021 年报 151IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度6. REVENUE AND SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued) 6. 收益及分部资料（续）Information about major customers 主要客户资料Revenue from a customer contributing over 10% of the total revenue of the Group is 为本集团贡献逾10%总收益之客户之收as follows: 益如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年% %Customer “A” 客户“A” 10 28Customer “B” 客户“B” –* 14Customer “C” 客户“C” 21 –*Customer “D” 客户“D” 13 –*C ustomer “E” 客 户“E” 11 –*Revenue from Customer “A” was generated from (i) connected home and 来自客户“A”之收益乃来自(i)智能家居communications segment, (ii) smart learning, and immersive technology segment 分部，(ii)智能教育与学习分部及(iii)其and (iii) others segment; revenue from Customer “B” was generated from (i) 他分部；来自客户“B”之收益乃来自(i)connected home and communications segment and (ii) others segment; revenue 智能家居分部及(ii)其他分部；来自客户from Customer “C” was generated from (i) connected home and communications “C”之收益乃来自(i)智能家居分部及(ii)segment and (ii) smart learning, and immersive technology segment; revenue from 智能教育与学习分部；来自客户“D”之Customer “D” was generated from (i) smart learning, and immersive technology 收益乃来自(i)智能教育与学习分部；来segment; revenue from Customer “E” was generated from (i) health and wellness 自客户“E”之收益乃来自(i)健康及保健segment and (ii) others segment. 分部及(ii)其他分部。* The corresponding revenue did not contribute 10% or more of the total revenue of * 于有关年度相应收益占本集团收益总the Group during the respective year. 额不及10%或以上。152 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度7. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER LOSSES, NET 7. 其他收入及其他亏损，净额2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Other income 其他收入Finance income on the net investment 融资租赁投资净额融资收入in finance leases 1.6 0.2Gain on derecognition of right-of-use assets 终止确认与总租赁有关的使用权relating to the head leases 资产收益 – 1.3Income from subleasing of right-of-use assets 投资物业╱经营租赁租用物业项下which categorised under investment properties/ 分类的使用权资产的分租收入rented premises under operating leases 1.9 10.9Sales of scraps 销售废料 1.6 –Subsidy income 补贴收入 0.6 1.5O thers 其 他 0.9 2.36.6 16.2Other losses, net 其他亏损，净额Exchange gain (loss), net 汇兑收益（亏损），净额 0.9 (1.4)P rovision for losses on litigations, net (note 32) 诉 讼亏损拨备，净额（附注32） (1.5) (3.3)(0.6) (4.7)8. CHARGE OF LOSS ALLOWANCE ON FINANCIAL ASSETS 8. 扣除金融资产亏损拨备2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Charge of loss allowance 扣除亏损拨备– on trade receivables －应收账款 0.1 18.2– on finance lease receivables －融资租赁应收款项 8.6 –8.7 18.2Details of loss allowance on trade receivables and finance lease receivables for 有关截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are set out in note 29 to the 月三十一日止年度应收账款及融资租赁consolidated financial statements. 应收款项的亏损拨备之详情载于综合财务报表附注29。Annual Report 2021 年报 153IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度9. LOSS BEFORE TAXATION 9. 除税前亏损This is stated after charging (crediting): 经扣除（计入）下列各项呈列：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Finance costs 融资成本Interest on borrowings 借款利息 2.9 2.6I nterest on lease liabilities 租 赁负债利息 3.8 0.66.7 3.2Staff costs 员工成本Directors’ emoluments (note 10) 董事酬金（附注10） 0.4 0.4Retirement benefits scheme contributions 其他员工退休福利计划供款（附注）for other staff (note) 9.4 3.8S alaries and other benefits for other staff 其 他员工之工资及其他福利 52.4 63.2T otal staff costs* 员 工成本总额* 62.2 67.4Losses from impairment 减值亏损Loss from impairment of advances to suppliers 预付供应商款项之减值亏损 1.9 –Loss from impairment of investment properties 投资物业减值亏损 1.0 –L oss from impairment of right-of-use assets 使 用权资产减值亏损 8.9 –T otal losses from impairment 减 值亏损总额 11.8 –Auditor’s remuneration 核数师酬金– Audit services －审计服务 1.2 1.2– Non-audit services －非审计服务 0.2 0.1Cost of inventories 存货成本 15.3 46.6(Reversal of write-down) Write-down of inventories 存货（撇减拨回）撇减(included in “Cost of goods sold”) （计入“销售成本”） (1.9) 4.5Depreciation of right-of-use assets (included in 使用权资产折旧“General administrative expenses”) （计入“一般行政开支”） 14.7 7.3Depreciation of property, plant and equipment* 物业、机器及设备折旧* 2.5 8.1Depreciation of investment properties (included in 投资物业折旧“General administrative expenses”) （计入“一般行政开支”） 1.5 0.1Rental expenses recognised under short-term leases 根据短期租赁确认之租金开支(included in “General administrative expenses” （计入“一般行政开支”及and “Cost of goods sold”) “销售成本”） – 16.7* The amounts include staff costs and depreciation of property, plant and equipment * 有关金额包括于损益扣除并于“存货”charged to profit or loss and capitalised in “Inventories”, as appropriate. 资本化之员工成本及物业、机器及设备折旧（如适用）。Note: For the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Group had no forfeited 附注：截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月contributions available to reduce its contribution to the Retirement Schemes in future 三十一日止年度，本集团并无已没收years. In addition, the increment of contributions to defined contribution retirement 供款可用于扣减未来年度之退休计划schemes was mainly attributable to the absence of exemption of social security 供款。此外，界定供款退休计划供款insurance contributions in the PRC during the year (2020: an exemption of social 增加乃主要归因于年内中国并无豁免security insurance contributions in the PRC from February 2020 to December 2020). 社保保险供款（二零二零年：中国自二零二零年二月至二零二零年十二月豁免社保保险供款）。154 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS 10. 董事及主要行政人员酬金(a) Directors’ emoluments (a) 董事酬金The aggregate amounts of remuneration received and receivable by the 本公司董事已收或应收之酬金总directors of the Company are as follows: 额如下：RetirementSalaries benefitsand schemeFees allowances contributions Total退休福利袍金 薪金及津贴 计划供款 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2021 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度Executive director: 执行董事：Mr. Zhu Yongning 朱永宁先生 – – – –Non-executive director: 非执行董事：Mr. Cui Xiao (note 1) 崔啸先生（附注1） – – – –Independent non-executive directors: 独立非执行董事：Mr. Xu Jinwen 徐锦文先生 0.2 – – 0.2Mr. Zhou Meilin 周美林先生 0.1 – – 0.1Mr. Zhou Rui 周锐先生 0.1 – – 0.10.4 – – 0.4Annual Report 2021 年报 155IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS (continued) 10. 董事及主要行政人员酬金（续）(a) Directors’ emoluments (continued) (a) 董事酬金（续）RetirementSalaries benefitsand schemeFees allowances contributions Total退休福利袍金 薪金及津贴 计划供款 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元Year ended 31 December 2020 截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度Executive director: 执行董事：Mr. Zhu Yongning 朱永宁先生 – – – –Non-executive directors: 非执行董事：Mr. Song Rongrong (note 2) 宋荣荣先生（附注2） – – – –Ms. Wu Qing (note 3) 吴清女士（附注3） – – – –Mr. Cui Xiao (note 1) 崔啸先生（附注1） – – – –Independent non-executive directors: 独立非执行董事：Mr. Xu Jinwen 徐锦文先生 0.2 – – 0.2Mr. Zhou Meilin 周美林先生 0.1 – – 0.1Mr. Zhou Rui 周锐先生 0.1 – – 0.10.4 – – 0.4156 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS (continued) 10. 董事及主要行政人员酬金（续）(a) Directors’ emoluments (continued) (a) 董事酬金（续）Note 1: Mr. Cui Xiao was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company 附注1： 崔啸先生于二零二零年八on 25 August 2020. 月二十五日获委任为本公司非执行董事。Note 2: Mr. Song Rongrong resigned as a non-executive director of the Company 附注2： 宋荣荣先生于二零二零年on 28 February 2020. 二月二十八日辞任本公司非执行董事。Note 3: Ms. Wu Qing was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company 附注3： 吴清女士于二零二零年三on 31 March 2020 and resigned as a non-executive director of the 月三十一日获委任为本公Company on 16 July 2020. 司非执行董事，并于二零二零年七月十六日辞任本公司非执行董事。The executive directors’ emoluments shown above were for their services 上文所示执行董事的酬金主要就in connection with the management of the affairs of the Company and the 彼等有关管理本公司及本集团事Group. 务的服务而言。The emoluments of the non-executive directors and independent non- 非执行董事及独立非执行董事之executive directors shown above were for their services as directors of the 酬金主要就彼等作为本公司董事Company. 提供的服务而言。(b) Loans, quasi-loans and other dealings in favour of directors (b) 以董事为受益人之贷款、类似贷款及其他交易There are no loans, quasi-loans or other dealings in favour of the directors of 截至二零二一年及二零二零年the Company that were entered into or subsisted during the years ended 31 十二月三十一日止年度概无订立December 2021 and 2020. 或存续任何以本公司董事为受益人之贷款、类似贷款及其他交易。Annual Report 2021 年报 157IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度10. DIRECTORS’ AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S EMOLUMENTS (continued) 10. 董事及主要行政人员酬金（续）(c) Directors’ material interests in transactions, arrangements or contracts (c) 董事于交易、安排或合约之重大利益After consideration, the directors of the Company are of the opinion that 经考虑后，本公司董事认为，截no transactions, arrangements and contracts of significance in relation to 至二零二一年及二零二零年十二the Company’s business to which the Company was a party and in which 月三十一日止年度年末或于截至a director of the Company, or connected entity of the directors of the 二零二一年及二零二零年十二月Company, had a material interest, whether directly or indirectly, subsisted 三十一日止年度任何时间，概无at the end of the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 or at any time 存续任何有关本公司业务之交during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 易、安排或重大合约，乃涉及本公司且本公司董事（或本公司董事之关连实体）直接或间接拥有重大利益。11. FIVE HIGHEST PAID INDIVIDUALS 11. 五名最高薪酬人士No director is included in the aggregate emoluments of the five highest paid 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月individuals during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 三十一日止年度，概无董事计入五名最高薪酬人士酬金总额。The emoluments of the five (2020: five) highest paid non-director individuals are as 五名（二零二零年：五名）非董事最高薪follows: 酬人士之酬金如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Salaries and allowances 薪金及津贴 2.7 3.3R etirement benefits schemes contributions 退 休福利计划供款 0.3 0.13.0 3.4158 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度11. FIVE HIGHEST PAID INDIVIDUALS (continued) 11. 五名最高薪酬人士（续）The emoluments of the five (2020: five) highest paid non-director individuals are 五名（二零二零年：五名）非董事最高薪within the following bands: 酬人士之酬金介乎以下幅度：Number of individuals雇员数目2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年N il to HK$1,000,000 零 至港币1,000,000元 5 5No emoluments were paid or payable by the Group to the directors of the 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月Company or the five highest paid individuals as an inducement to join or upon 三十一日止年度，本集团概无支付或应joining the Group, or as compensation for loss of office during the years ended 31 付酬金予本公司董事或五名最高薪酬人December 2021 and 2020. There was no arrangement under which a director or 士作为彼等加入本集团或加入后之酬金the five highest paid individuals waived or agreed to waive any remuneration for the 或离职补偿金。概无董事或五名最高years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 薪酬人士截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度放弃或同意放弃任何酬金之安排。Annual Report 2021 年报 159IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度12. TAXATION 12. 税项No provision for income tax has been made as the Group entitles either had no 由于本集团于截至二零二一年及二零二estimated assessable profits or incurred tax losses for the years ended 31 December 零年十二月三十一日止年度并无估计应2021 and 2020. 课税溢利或产生税项亏损，故并无作出所得税拨备。The tax charge for the year is reconciled to the loss before taxation as follows: 本年度税项支出与除税前之亏损对账如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元L oss before taxation 除 税前亏损 (84.2) (95.8)Tax credit at the domestic income tax rate of 16.5% 按本地所得税率16.5%计算的税项抵免 (13.9) (15.8)Tax effect of expenses not deductible for 不可扣税开支之税项影响tax purpose 1.9 0.8Tax effect of income not taxable for tax purpose 毋须课税收入之税项影响 (0.4) (0.3)Tax effect of tax losses not recognised 未获确认税项亏损之税项影响 13.1 16.8Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating 于其他司法权区经营附属公司in other jurisdictions 所采用税率不同之影响 (3.0) (4.3)Tax effect of deductible temporary difference 未获确认可扣税暂时差额之税项影响not recognised 2.3 2.8T ax charge for the year 本 年度税项支出 – –Entities incorporated in Hong Kong are subject to Hong Kong Profits tax. On 于香港注册成立之实体须缴纳香港利得21 March 2018, the Hong Kong Legislative Council passed The Inland Revenue 税。于二零一八年三月二十一日，香港(Amendment) (No. 7) Bill 2017 (the “Bill”) which introduces the two-tiered profits 立法会通过《2017年税务（修订）（第7号）tax rates regime. The Bill was signed into law on 28 March 2018 and was gazetted 条例草案》（“条例草案”），引入利得税on the following day. Under the two-tiered profits tax rates regime, the first HK$2 两级制。该条例草案于二零一八年三月million of profits of the qualifying group entity will be taxed at 8.25%, and profits 二十八日经签署生效，并于翌日刊宪。above HK$2 million will be taxed at 16.5%. The profits of group entities not 根据利得税两级制，合资格法团首港币qualifying for the two-tiered profits tax rates regime will continue to be taxed at a 2百万元溢利的利得税率将为8.25%，其flat rate of 16.5%. 后港币2百万元以上的溢利则按16.5%征税。不符合利得税两级制资格的法团的溢利将持续划一按16.5%税率计算。160 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度12. TAXATION (continued) 12. 税项（续）Under the Law of the PRC on Enterprise Income Tax (“EIT Law”) and 按照《中华人民共和国企业所得税法》Implementation Regulation of the EIT Law, the tax rate for the PRC subsidiaries is （“企业所得税法”）及实施条例，中国附25% for both years. 属公司之企业所得税税率于两个年度均为25%。Taxation arising in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the 其他司法权区之税项乃按照有关司法权relevant jurisdictions. 区现行之税率计算。At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unutilised tax losses of 于报告期末，本集团有尚未动用税项亏approximately HK$556.0 million (2020: approximately HK$550.5 million) available 损约港币556.0百万元（二零二零年：约for offset against future profits. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect 港币550.5百万元）可供抵销日后溢利。of such losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams in the years ended 由于截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二31 December 2021 and 2020. Included in the unrecognised tax losses were losses 月三十一日止年度难以预测未来溢利of approximately HK$170.1 million (2020: approximately HK$157.7 million that 流，故并无就该等亏损确认递延税项资would expire in the years of 2021 to 2025) that will expire in the years of 2022 to 产。未确认税项亏损包括将于二零二二2026. Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 年至二零二六年期间到期之亏损约港币170.1百万元（二零二零年：将于二零二一年至二零二五年期间到期之亏损约港币157.7百万元）。其他亏损可无限期结转。The Group also has certain deductible temporary differences mainly related to loss 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团from impairment of advances to suppliers, loss allowance on trade receivables and 亦拥有若干可扣减暂时差额约港币92.0finance lease receivables and write-down of inventories amounted to approximately 百万元（二零二零年：约港币83.3百万HK$92.0 million and available for offset against future profits at 31 December 2021 元），主要与预付供应商款项之减值亏(2020: approximately HK$83.3 million). No deferred tax asset has been recognised 损、应收账款及融资租赁应收款项亏损in relation to such deductible temporary differences as it is not probable that taxable 拨备及存货撇减有关，并可用于抵销日profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be 后溢利。由于不大可能有应课税溢利可utilised. 用以抵销可扣减暂时差额，故概无就有关可扣减暂时差额确认递延税项资产。Annual Report 2021 年报 161IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度12. TAXATION (continued) 12. 税项（续）Exposures arising from income tax liabilities 所得税负债产生的风险Oregon Scientific Italy Limited (“OS Italy”) Oregon Scientific Italy Limited（ “OS Italy”）An indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, OS Italy, was involved in 本公司之间接全资附属公司OS Italy牵涉a tax dispute with the Italian Tax Authorities. As disclosed in the announcement 一项与意大利税务局之税务纠纷。如本of the Company dated 6 November 2018, there was a tax dispute between OS 公司日期为二零一八年十一月六日之公Italy and the Italian Tax Authorities (“Tax Dispute”), and the tax charge judgement 布所披露，OS Italy与意大利税务局之in relation to the Tax Dispute from the Supreme Court of Cassation of Italy was 间存在税务纠纷（“税务纠纷”），并接获received. After seeking the independent legal advice, the directors of the Company 意大利最高上诉法院就税务纠纷作出的considered no further legal actions are possible for OS Italy in relation to the Tax 税收判决。经寻求独立法律意见后，本Dispute. Based on tax notice received from the Italian Tax Authorities in January 公司董事认为，OS Italy无任何其他途径2019, the Group provided a tax provision of approximately Euro (“EUR”) 1.4 million 可以就税务纠纷进一步申诉。根据于二(equivalent to approximately HK$12.3 million) in profit or loss for the year ended 零一九年一月接获的意大利税务局发出31 December 2018. OS Italy was declared bankrupt by the Court in July 2019 and a 的税收通知，本集团于截至二零一八年bankruptcy trustee was appointed to in charge of OS Italy’s bankruptcy procedure. 十二月三十一日止年度之损益内计提税After seeking the independent legal advice, the directors of the Company considered 项拨备约1.4百万欧元（“欧元”）（相当于that OS Italy was still at the earlier stage of bankruptcy procedures and the related 约港币12.3百万元）。OS Italy由法院于二tax liabilities had not yet been fully discharged. Accordingly, the Group continued to 零一九年七月宣告破产，并委任破产信recognise the aforesaid tax provision of approximately EUR1.4 million (equivalent 托人负责OS Italy的破产程序。在征询独to approximately HK$12.0 million) as tax payable at 31 December 2021 (2020: 立法律意见后，本公司董事认为OS Italyapproximately EUR1.4 million (equivalent to approximately HK$12.9 million)). 仍处于破产程序较早阶段，且相关税项负债仍未获全面解除。因此，于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团继续确认上述税项拨备约1.4百万欧元（相当于约港币12.0百万元）（二零二零年：约1.4百万欧元（相当于约港币12.9百万元））为应付税项。162 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度12. TAXATION (continued) 12. 税项（续）Exposures arising from income tax liabilities (continued) 所得税负债产生的风险（续）Oregon Scientific Brasil Ltda (“OS Brazil”) Oregon Scientific Brasil Ltda（ “OS Brazil”）An indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, OS Brazil, was involved in 本公司的间接全资附属公司OS Brazil与a tax dispute with the State of Sao Paulo, the Federative Republic of Brazil, which 巴西联邦共和国圣保罗州发生税务纠may cause a maximum tax payment including penalty and interest of approximately 纷，可能导致缴纳最高税款（包括罚金Brazilian Real 3.8 million (equivalent to approximately HK$5.3 million) (2020: 及利息）约为3.8百万巴西雷亚尔（相当于approximately Brazilian Real 3.7 million (equivalent to approximately HK$5.6 约港币5.3百万元）（二零二零年：约为million)). After seeking the independent legal advice, the directors of the Company 3.7百万巴西雷亚尔（相当于约港币5.6百considered that the outcome and the amount of final payment, if any, are uncertain 万元））。在征询独立法律意见后，本公but the expected value of liability is insignificant to the Group. Therefore, no 司董事认为结果及最终付款金额（如有）provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements. 并不确定，惟预期负债值对本集团而言并不重大。因此并无于综合财务报表计提拨备。13. LOSS PER SHARE 13. 每股亏损The calculation of the basic loss per share attributable to the owners of the 于两个年度本公司拥有人应占每股基本Company for both years is based on the following data: 亏损乃按下列数据计算：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Loss for the year attributable to owners 用以计算每股基本亏损之of the Company for the purpose of 本公司拥有人应占之basic loss per share 本年度亏损 (84.2) (95.8)2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年Number of ordinary shares: 普通股份数目：Weighted average number of ordinary shares 用以计算每股基本亏损之for the purposes of basic loss per share 普通股加权平均数 2,599,993,088 2,599,993,088Diluted loss per share is the same as basic loss per share as there was no potential 每股摊薄亏损与每股基本亏损相同，因ordinary share in issue for both years. 为两个年度均无已发行潜在普通股。Annual Report 2021 年报 163IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 14. 物业、机器及设备Furniture,fixture and Motor Plant andequipment vehicles machinery Total家私、装置及设备 汽车 机器及器械 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元COST 成本At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 256.3 2.1 258.7 517.1Additions 添置 – – 0.3 0.3At 31 December 2020 and 2021 于二零二零年及二零二一年十二月三十一日 256.3 2.1 259.0 517.4ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION 累计折旧At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 252.0 2.1 251.2 505.3Charged for the year 本年度计提 2.2 – 5.9 8.1At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日 254.2 2.1 257.1 513.4Charged for the year 本年度计提 0.8 – 1.7 2.5At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 255.0 2.1 258.8 515.9NET CARRYING AMOUNT 账面净值At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 1.3 – 0.2 1.5At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日 2.1 – 1.9 4.0164 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) 14. 物业、机器及设备（续）Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less 物业、机器及设备均以直线法，按估计their residual values over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, 可用年期减其剩余价值计提折旧，以撇at the following rates per annum: 销成本，每年之折旧率如下：Furniture, fixture and equipment 10%–25% 家私、装置及设备 10%–25%Motor vehicles 10%–20% 汽车 10%–20%Plant and machinery 10%–33% 机器及器械 10%–33%During the year ended 31 December 2021, as a result of the unsatisfactory 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年performance of the Group due to the unprecedent impact of the COVID-19 度，由于COVID-19疫情空前影响导致pandemic, the management of the Group carried out a review of the recoverable 本集团财务表现欠佳，本集团管理层对amounts of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and right-of-use 物业、机器及设备、投资物业及使用权assets. The management of the Group performed an impairment assessment by using 资产之可收回金额进行检讨。本集团管the fair value less cost of disposal model and compared the carrying amount of the 理层采用公平值减出售成本模型进行减assets to determine the amount of impairment which should be recognised for the 值评估，并将资产账面值进行比较，以year. 厘定应于本年度确认的减值金额。For property, plant and equipment, the fair value less costs of disposal was 就物业、机器及设备而言，公平值减出determined by the management of the Group using the depreciated replacement 售成本由本集团管理层采用折旧重置成cost approach and/or market comparable approach, as appropriate. The 本法及╱或市场可比较法（视乎适用）厘determination of the fair value less costs of disposal is based on available data 定。厘定公平值减出售成本乃根据来自from binding sales transactions in an arm’s length transaction of similar assets or 对类似资产进行公平且具约束力销售交observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. If no 易之可查阅数据或可观察市价，减除出second hand prices are available, the fair value less costs to disposal is determined 售有关资产之递增成本。倘并无转售价using depreciated replacement cost approach that requires an estimation of new 格可供查阅，则公平值减出售成本乃采replacement cost of the assets from which deductions are then made to allow for 用折旧重置成本法而厘定，该方法需估physical deterioration and all forms of obsolescence and optimisation. Based on the 计有关资产之重置成本，再从中作出扣results of the impairment assessment, the management of the Group concluded that 减，以计及老化及所有形式的陈旧及优the recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment were higher than 化。根据减值评估结果，本集团管理层their carrying amounts and therefore no impairment was required. 得出结论认为，物业、机器及设备之可收回金额较其账面值高，因此毋须计提减值。For investment properties and right-of-use assets, the determination of the fair 就投资物业及使用权资产而言，于以合value less costs of disposal was based on income capitalisation approach which 适的资本化比率厘定市场参与者产生的involves estimations and assumptions in determining rental income derived from 租金收入时，公平值减出售成本乃根据market participant’s perspective with appropriate capitalisation rate. Based on the 收入资本化法厘定，其涉及估计及假results of the impairment assessment, the management of the Group concluded 设。基于减值评估之结果，本集团管理that the recoverable amounts of the investment properties and right-of-use assets 层认为，投资物业及使用权资产之可收were lower than their carrying amounts and it led to the recognition of impairment 回金额低于其账面值，其导致投资物业losses of approximately HK$1.0 million on investment properties (note 15) and （附注15）及使用权资产（附注16）确认减approximately HK$8.9 million on right-of-use assets (note 16) respectively. 值亏损分别约港币1.0百万元及港币8.9百万元。Annual Report 2021 年报 165IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度15. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 15. 投资物业Leasedproperties租赁物业HK$ million港币百万元COST 成本At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 –Additions 添置 3.2At 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2021 于二零二零年十二月三十一日及二零二一年十二月三十一日 3.2ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND 累计折旧及减值亏损IMPAIRMENT LOSSESAt 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 –Charged for the year 本 年度计提 0.1At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日 0.1Charged for the year 本年度计提 1.5I mpairment loss (note 14) 减 值亏损（附注14） 1.0A t 31 December 2021 于 二零二一年十二月三十一日 2.6NET CARRYING AMOUNT 账面净值A t 31 December 2021 于 二零二一年十二月三十一日 0.6A t 31 December 2020 于 二零二零年十二月三十一日 3.1FAIR VALUE 公平值A t 31 December 2021 于 二零二一年十二月三十一日 0.7A t 31 December 2020 于 二零二零年十二月三十一日 3.5166 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度15. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (continued) 15. 投资物业（续）Leasing arrangement – as lessee 租赁安排－作为承租人The Group’s investment properties are leased properties in relation to operating 本集团的投资物业为经营租赁用于分租lease used for sub-leasing purpose and the lease terms are two years. 用途的租赁物业，租期为两年。The management of the Group is of the view that the Group’s investment 本集团管理层认为，本集团的投资物业properties, which are only included leased properties under operating lease 仅包括经营租赁项下作分租用途的租赁with sub-leasing purpose. By using the cost model would provide more relevant 物业。透过使用成本模式，可就本集团information about the Group’s financial position and performance. 的财务状况及表现提供更多相关资料。At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the management of the Group assessed the fair 于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月value is under level 3 of the three-level fair value hierarchy as defined under HKFRS 三十一日，本集团管理层评估了公平13 which is estimated using income capitalisation approach by capitalising the rental 值，乃按香港财务报告准则第13号所订income derived from the existing tenancies over the existing lease term at an 之公平值三层架构中分类为第三级，该appropriate capitalisation rate. 公平值采用收入资本化法估计，将现有租约于现有租期内产生的租金收入按适当资本化率扩充资本。Leasing arrangement – as lessor 租赁安排－作为出租人The investment properties are leased to a number of tenants for terms ranging 投资物业已出租予若干租户，租期介乎from two months to two years, in which the lease term is cancellable (without 两个月至两年，租户可于一至两个月的compensation) with notice periods of one to two months by the tenants with fixed 通知期内撤销租约（无偿），并收取固定monthly rental charges and the tenants also bear the management fees. The details 月租，且租户亦承担管理费。来自经营of the lease income from operating leases are set out in note 7 to the consolidated 租赁的租赁收入详情载列于综合财务报financial statements. 表附注7。Below is a maturity analysis of undiscounted lease payments to be received from the 下表为自投资物业租赁将收取之未贴现leasing of investment properties. 租赁付款的到期分析：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Within 1 year 1年内 0.7 1.8More than 1 year but within 2 years 超过1年但于2年内 – 1.8M ore than 2 years but within 3 years 超 过2年但于3年内 – 0.2U ndiscounted lease payments to be received 将 收取之未贴现租赁付款 0.7 3.8Annual Report 2021 年报 167IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度16. LEASES 16. 租赁The Group as lessee 本集团作为承租人Right-of-use assets 使用权资产Buildings楼宇HK$ million港币百万元Reconciliation of carrying amount – 账面值对账－截至二零二零年year ended 31 December 2020 十二月三十一日止年度At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 4.8Additions 添置 59.9Derecognised at inception of finance lease arrangements 融资租赁安排成立时终止确认 (25.0)Reclassified to investment properties 重新分类至投资物业 (3.2)Depreciation 折旧 (7.3)At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日 29.2Reconciliation of carrying amount – 账面值对账－截至二零二一年year ended 31 December 2021 十二月三十一日止年度At 1 January 2021 于二零二一年一月一日 29.2Depreciation 折旧 (14.7)I mpairment loss (note 14) 减 值亏损（附注14） (8.9)At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 5.6Buildings楼宇HK$ million港币百万元At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日Cost 成本 31.7Accumulated depreciation 累计折旧 (2.5)Net carrying amount 账面净值 29.2At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日Cost 成本 31.7Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 累计折旧及减值亏损 (26.1)Net carrying amount 账面净值 5.6168 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度16. LEASES (continued) 16. 租赁（续）The Group as lessee (continued) 本集团作为承租人（续）Lease liabilities 租赁负债2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Lease liabilities 租赁负债Current portion 即期部分 27.1 26.8N on-current portion 非 即期部分 15.6 29.842.7 56.6The Group leases various office and factory premises for its daily operations and the 本集团为其日常营运租用若干办公室initial lease terms are two years (2020: two years). The total cash outflow for leases 及工厂物业，首次租期为两年（二零二was approximately HK$17.7 million for the year ended 31 December 2021 (2020: 零年：二年）。截至二零二一年十二月approximately HK$25.6 million). 三十一日止年度，租赁现金流出总额约为港币17.7百万元（二零二零年：约为港币25.6百万元）。At 31 December 2021, the weighted average effective interest rate for the lease 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团liabilities of the Group was 9.0% per annum (2020: 8.2% per annum). 之租赁负债之加权平均实际年利率为9.0%（二零二零年：年利率为8.2%）。Commitments under leases 租赁项下承担At 31 December 2021 and 2020 于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日The Group had no significant commitment for short-term leases. 本集团并无任何短期租赁之重大承担。Annual Report 2021 年报 169IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度17. FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES 17. 融资租赁应收款项During the year ended 31 December 2020, the Group entered into finance lease 于截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年arrangements as the lessor for certain of its right-of-use assets, which have a lease 度内，本集团作为出租人就其若干使用term of two years. The leases do not include purchase, extension or termination 权资产订立融资租赁安排，其租期为两options. 年。租赁不包括购买、延期或终止选择权。The Group is not exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of the lease 由于所有租赁均以人民币（“人民币”，arrangements, as all leases are denominated in Renminbi (“RMB”), the functional 涉及租赁安排之集团实体的功能货币）currency of the group entities involved in the lease arrangements. 计值，故本集团并无因租赁安排而面临外币风险。Below is a maturity analysis of lease payments receivable and the reconciliation of 下表为应收租赁付款的到期分析及未贴undiscounted lease payments to the present value of minimum lease payments. 现租赁付款与最低租赁付款现值之对账。2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Finance lease receivables comprises: 融资租赁应收款项包括：Within 1 year 1年内 13.3 13.3More than 1 year but within 2 years 超过1年但于2年内 1.2 13.3M ore than 2 years but within 3 years 超 过2年但于3年内 – 1.2Gross investment in the lease (note) 租赁之投资总额（附注） 14.5 27.8L ess: Unearned finance income 减 ：未赚取融资收入 (0.7) (2.3)Present value of minimum lease payments 最低租赁付款现值 13.8 25.5L ess: Loss allowance (note 29) 减 ：亏损拨备（附注29） (8.6) –5.2 25.5Current portion 即期部分 5.2 11.7N on-current portion 非 即期部分 – 13.85.2 25.5The finance lease receivables at the end of the reporting period are not past due. 于报告期末，融资租赁应收款项并无逾The weighted average effective interest rate contracted was 8.2% per annum. 期。订约加权平均实际年利率为8.2%。Details of impairment assessment of finance lease receivables for the year ended 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月31 December 2021 and 2020 are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial 三十一日止年度之融资租赁应收款项之statements. 减值评估详情载于综合财务报表附注29。Note: The gross investment in the lease represents the total undiscounted lease payments 附注： 租赁之投资总额指本集团根据融资to be received by the Group under the finance lease arrangements. There was no 租赁安排将收取的未贴现租赁付款总unguaranteed residual accruing to the Group. 额。本集团并无应计未担保余值。170 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度18. GOODWILL 18. 商誉2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元COST 成本A t 1 January and 31 December 于 一月一日及十二月三十一日 33.8 33.8ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 累计减值亏损A t 1 January and 31 December 于 一月一日及十二月三十一日 33.8 33.8NET CARRYING AMOUNT 账面净值A t 31 December 于 十二月三十一日 – –Goodwill arising on the acquisition of business in prior years were allocated to 过往年度收购业务所产生的商誉获分配two individual cash generating units (“CGUs”), comprising the health and wellness 至两个创现单位（“创现单位”），包括健segment and the connected home and communications segment. 康及保健分部和智能家居分部。During the year ended 31 December 2018, having considered that some products 截至二零一八年十二月三十一日止年had been loss-making and the relevant operations were either terminated during 度，经考虑若干产品已产生亏损及相关the year or planned to be terminated in the foreseeable future, the directors of 业务会与年内终止或计划于可见将来终the Company had consequently performed an impairment review for these CGUs 止，本公司董事其后对该等创现单位进and the recoverable amounts were determined from a value in use calculation. 行减值检讨，而可收回金额从计算使用As a result of the impairment tests, the director of the Company concluded 价值的角度厘定。由于减值测试，本公that the goodwill of health and wellness segment and the connected home and 司董事认为就健康及保健分部内及智能communications segment had been fully impaired. 家居分部内商誉已全额减值。Annual Report 2021 年报 171IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度19. INVENTORIES 19. 存货2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Raw materials 原料 4.3 3.3Work in progress 在制品 0.2 0.3F inished goods 制 成品 0.7 3.55.2 7.1During the year ended 31 December 2021, there was an increase in the net 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年realisable value of certain raw materials and finished goods due to rise in market 度，由于市价上涨，若干原料及制成品price (2020: decrease in net realisable value of certain raw materials and finished 之可变现净值有所增加（二零二零年：goods due to obsolescence and diminishing marketability as a result of changes 由于市况及技术变动导致存货陈旧及可in the market condition and technology). Therefore, a reversal of write-down 销售程度逐步减少，若干原料及制成品of approximately HK$1.9 million (2020: write-down of approximately HK$4.5 之可变现净值有所减少）。因此，已于million) has been recognised in profit or loss. At 31 December 2021, the carrying 损益确认撇减拨回约港币1.9百万元（二amount net of allowance of inventories of approximately HK$49.0 million (2020: 零二零年：撇减约港币4.5百万元）。于approximately HK$50.9 million) amounted to approximately HK$5.2 million (2020: 二零二一年十二月三十一日，账面值approximately HK$7.1 million). （扣除存货拨备约港币49.0百万元（二零二零年：约港币50.9百万元））约为港币5.2百万元（二零二零年：约港币7.1百万元）。20. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 20. 应收账款及其他应收款项2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Trade receivables 应收账款 33.2 33.2L ess: Loss allowance for ECL 减 ：预期信贷亏损拨备 (32.5) (32.4)0.7 0.8O ther receivables 其 他应收款项 6.2 5.5T otal trade and other receivables 应 收账款及其他应收款项总额 6.9 6.3172 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度20. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 20. 应收账款及其他应收款项（续）The following is the ageing analysis of trade receivables (net of loss allowance 于报告日期，应收账款扣除预期信贷亏for ECL) presented based on the invoice date which approximate the respective 损拨备后，按发票日期（该日期与相关revenue recognition date at the reporting date. 收益确认日期相若）呈列之账龄分析如下。2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元0 to 30 days 0至30日 0.3 –31 to 90 days 31日至90日 – –O ver 90 days 9 0日以上 0.4 0.8T rade receivables 应 收账款 0.7 0.8The Group normally requests its customers to make advance payment, except 除信贷期通常达45日的若干客户以外，for certain customers for which the credit terms are generally up to 45 days. The 本集团通常要求其客户提前付款。本集Group seeks to maintain strict control over its outstanding receivables to minimise 团对其未偿还应收款项进行严格控制，credit risk. Before accepting any new customers, the management of the Group will 以尽量减小信贷风险。接纳任何新客户base on the credit quality of the potential customers to define credit limits. Credit 之前，本集团管理层将根据潜在客户的limits to customers are reviewed annually. In determining the recoverability of the 信贷质素界定信贷限额。向客户授出的trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 信贷限额会每年进行检讨。于厘定应收receivables from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. 账款是否可予收回时，本集团会考虑自信贷首次获授当日起至报告日期止应收账款之信贷质素的任何变动。At 31 December 2021, included in the Group’s trade receivable balances are 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团debtors with aggregate carrying amount of approximately HK$0.4 million (2020: 之应收账款结余包括总账面值约为港币approximately HK$0.8 million) which are past due over 90 days at the end of the 0.4百万元（二零二零年：约港币0.8百万reporting period. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances. 元）且于报告期末已逾期90日以上之应收账款。本集团并无就该等结余持有任何抵押品。Annual Report 2021 年报 173IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度20. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 20. 应收账款及其他应收款项（续）Other receivables 其他应收款项2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Advances to suppliers (note) 预付供应商款项（附注） 1.7 2.0Other taxes recoverable 其他可收回税款 3.4 2.3O thers 其 他 1.1 1.26.2 5.5Note: The Group had made advances to various suppliers for the procurement of raw 附注： 本集团已为采购原料向若干供应商作materials. At 31 December 2021, the unutilised advances to suppliers amounted to 出预付款项。于二零二一年十二月approximately HK$1.7 million (2020: approximately HK$2.0 million). The directors 三十一日，未动用预付供应商款项达of the Company reassessed the recoverability of the unutilised advances based on 约港币1.7百万元（二零二零年：约港币all relevant information available to the Group. Due to the continuing downturn of 2.0百万元）。本公司董事根据本集团所the Group’s business operation and the status of negotiation with the suppliers, the 有可取阅之相关资料重新评估未动用directors of the Company considered that there was significant uncertainty on the 预付款项之可收回程度。因本集团业ability of the Group to recover certain part of the advances through either utilisation 务营运持续下行及本集团与供应商之from future purchases or refunds. Accordingly, an impairment loss of approximately 磋商状况，本公司董事认为通过未来HK$1.9 million (2020: Nil) was recognised in profit or loss for year ended 31 采购动用或退款使本集团能收回若干December 2021. 部分预付款项之能力存在重大不明朗因素。因此，截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度于损益确认减值亏损约港币1.9百万元（二零二零年：零）。Included in trade and other receivables are the following amounts denominated 应收账款及其他应收款项包括下列以相in currency other than the functional currency of the group entities to which they 关集团实体之功能货币以外之货币计值relate. 之款项：截至二零二一2年02及1二零二零年十20二20月二零二一年二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元R MB 人 民币 5.1 2.2Details of impairment assessment of trade and other receivables for the years ended 三十一日止年度之应收账款及其他应收31 December 2021 and 2020 are set out in note 29 to the consolidated financial 款项减值评估详情载于综合财务报表附statements. 注29。174 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度21. RESTRICTED BANK BALANCES AND CASH AND CASH 21. 受限制银行结余及现金及等同现金EQUIVALENTS 项目2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Bank balances and cash 银行结余及现金 52.9 13.1L ess: Restricted bank balances 减 ：受限制银行结余 (3.4) (3.7)C ash and cash equivalents 现 金及等同现金项目 49.5 9.4Bank balances and cash comprised cash held by the Group and bank deposits which 银行结余及现金包括本集团持有之现金carried interest at prevailing market rates. 及银行存款，有关存款按通行市场利率计息。At 31 December 2021, restricted bank balances of approximately HK$3.4 million 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，受限制(2020: approximately HK$3.7 million) were frozen by the order of the courts in 银行结余约为港币3.4百万元（二零二零the PRC pursuant to the legal claims as set out in the note 32 to the consolidated 年：约港币3.7百万元）根据载列于综合financial statements. 财务报表附注32的法律诉讼之中国法院法令冻结。Included in bank balances and cash are the following amounts denominated in 银行结余及现金包括下列以相关集团实currency other than the functional currency of the group entities to which they 体之功能货币以外之货币计值之款项：relate:2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元EUR 欧元 0.3 0.4RMB 人民币 3.7 4.7U nited States dollars (“US$”) 美 元（“美元”） 48.5 5.0Annual Report 2021 年报 175IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 22. 应付账款及其他应付款项The following is the ageing analysis of trade payables presented based on the invoice 于报告期末，应付账款按发票日期呈列date at the end of the reporting period: 之账龄分析如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元0 to 30 days 0至30日 3.1 3.831 to 90 days 31日至90日 0.2 1.7O ver 90 days 9 0日以上 23.7 29.1Trade payables 应付账款 27.0 34.6O ther payables 其 他应付款项 34.8 23.9T rade and other payables 应 付账款及其他应付款项 61.8 58.5The trade payables are interest-free with normal credit terms up to 90 days. 应付账款为免息及一般信贷期长达90日。Other payables 其他应付款项NOTES 2021 2020附注 二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Payable for staff costs 应付员工成本 10.1 8.2Payable for audit services 审计服务应付款项 1.9 2.1Other tax payables 其他应付税项 2.0 2.5Provision for losses on litigations 诉讼亏损拨备 32 3.8 3.3Refundable deposits from its customers 来自其客户的可退还按金 23 10.1 –O thers 其 他 6.9 7.8T otal other payables 其 他应付款项总额 34.8 23.9176 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued) 22. 应付账款及其他应付款项（续）Other payables (continued) 其他应付款项（续）Included in trade and other payables are the following amounts denominated in 应付账款及其他应付款项包括下列以相currency other than the functional currency of the group entities to which they 关集团实体之功能货币以外之货币计值relate: 之款项：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元R MB 人 民币 28.0 26.023. CONTRACT LIABILITIES 23. 合约负债The movements (excluding those arising from increases and decreases both 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月occurred within the same year) of contract liabilities from contracts with customers 三十一日止年度来自香港财务报告准则within HKFRS 15 during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are as 第15号界定之客户合约的合约负债变动follows: （不包括均于同一年内发生的增加及减少所产生变动）如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元At 1 January 于一月一日 18.7 23.3Receipt of advances 收取预付款项 5.9 6.6Recognised as revenue 确认为收益 (5.8) (11.2)T ransfer to other payables 转 拨至其他应付款项 (10.1) –A t 31 December 于 十二月三十一日 8.7 18.7At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the advances from customers are expected to be 于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月recognised as revenue within 1 year. 三十一日，收取客户的预付款项预期于一年内确认为收益。Annual Report 2021 年报 177IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度23. CONTRACT LIABILITIES (continued) 23. 合约负债（续）Unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations 未完成或部分未完成的履约责任All the performance obligations that were unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) at 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，所有未31 December 2021 are part of contracts that have an original expected duration 完成（或部分未完成）的履约责任均为原of one year or less. Given that the Group applies the practical expedient in 始预计持续一年或更短的部分合约。鉴paragraph 121(a) of HKFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to these performance 于本集团应用香港财务报告准则第15号obligations is not disclosed. 第121(a)段所载可行权宜之计，故并未披露分配至该等履约责任的交易价格。24. LOAN FROM A SHAREHOLDER 24. 股东贷款The balance represents loan advanced from a shareholder, Huaneng, for working 结余指自一名股东（华能）垫支的贷款，capital purpose. The loan was unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand. 用作营运资金。该贷款为无抵押、免息及来索即付。Huaneng has confirmed in writing that it will not demand the partial or full 华能已以书面确认，其将不会要求部分repayment of the shareholder’s loan until such demand or withdrawal has no 或悉数偿还股东贷款，直至有关要求或significant adverse impact on the Group’s going concern and the sufficiency of 撤回不对本集团持续经营及备有充足营working capital. 运资金有重大不利影响。25. BORROWINGS 25. 借款2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Non-current (note i) 非即期（附注i）Unsecured borrowing from a financial institution 来自一间金融机构的无担保借款 36.5 35.7I nterest payables 应 付利息 12.2 9.148.7 44.8Current (note ii) 即期（附注ii）Unsecured borrowings from other creditors 来自其他债务人的无担保借款 9.3 –I nterest payables 应 付利息 –* –9.3 –* Represents amounts less than HK$0.1 million. * 指金额少于港币0.1百万元。178 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度25. BORROWINGS (continued) 25. 借款（续）Notes: 附注：(i) On 8 December 2017, a subsidiary of the Group, 万威电子（深圳）有限公司, (i) 于二零一七年十二月八日，本集团entered into a loan agreement with a financial institution to borrow approximately 的附属公司万威电子（深圳）有限公司RMB30.0 million at a fixed interest rate of 8.0% per annum for one year. On 27 March 与一家金融机构订立贷款协议，以按2020, 万威电子（深圳）有限公司 entered into a supplementary agreement with 固定年利率8.0%借款约人民币30.0百the financial institution to extend the repayment date of the borrowing including the 万元一年。于二零二零年三月二十七interest payables with maturity date on 31 March 2026 at a fixed interest of 8.0% per 日，万威电子（深圳）有限公司与该金annum. 融机构订立补充协议延长有关借款（包括应付利息）还款日期，到期日为二零二六年三月三十一日，按固定年利率8.0%计息。(ii) The borrowings from other creditors were unsecured and guaranteed by the (ii) 来自其他债务人之借款为无抵押及由controlling shareholder of the Company, bore interest at 10.0% per annum and 本公司控股股东担保，按年息10.0%repayable on demand. The borrowings were denominated in RMB. 计息及来索即付。借款均以人民币计值。26. SHARE CAPITAL 26. 股本Number ofshares Amount股份数目 金额HK$ million港币百万元Authorised: 法定：Ordinary shares of HK$0.10 each 每股面值港币0.10元的普通股份At 1 January 2020 and 31 December 于二零二零年一月一日以及二零二零年2020 and 2021 及二零二一年十二月三十一日 20,000,000,000 2,000.0Ordinary shares of US$0.10 each 每股面值0.10美元的普通股份At 1 January 2020 and 31 December 于二零二零年一月一日以及二零二零年2020 and 2021 及二零二一年十二月三十一日 10,000 –Issued and fully paid: 已发行及缴足：Ordinary shares of HK$0.10 each 每股面值港币0.10元的普通股份At 1 January 2020 and 31 December 于二零二零年一月一日以及二零二零年2020 and 2021 及二零二一年十二月三十一日 2,599,993,088 260.0Annual Report 2021 年报 179IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度27. SHARE OPTION SCHEME 27. 购股权计划The Group share option scheme (the “Scheme”) was approved for adoption on 29 本集团之购股权计划（“计划”）于二零August 2012 to attract, motivate and retain key employees who contribute to the 一二年八月二十九日获批准采纳，以吸growth of the Group. The Scheme has a maximum of ten years in operation from 引、激励及挽留对本集团增长作出贡献the date of adoption. 之主要雇员。计划由采纳日期起维持生效至长达十年。Pursuant to the Scheme, the board of directors of the Company offered to grant 根据计划，本公司董事会可向选定之合options to selected eligible participants, including full-time employees and full-time 资格参与者提呈授予购股权。此等合资executive directors of the Company or employees or any of its subsidiaries. 格参与者包括本公司之全职雇员和全职执行董事，或其任何附属公司之雇员。The limit on the total number of shares which may be issued upon exercise of all 授出但尚未行使之所有购股权，加上根outstanding options granted and yet to be exercised, together with all outstanding 据本公司任何其他购股权计划授出但尚options granted and yet to be exercised under any other share option scheme(s) 未行使之所有购股权而可能发行之股份of the Company, must not exceed 30% of the number of the Company’s issued 总数，最多不得超过本公司其时之已发shares from time to time. Subject always to the aforesaid overall 30% limit, the total 行股份数目之30%。在时刻受上文所述number of shares which may be issued upon exercise of all options to be granted, 整体30%限额限制下，因行使所有将授together with all options to be granted under other share option scheme(s) of the 出之购股权，以及根据本公司其他购股Company, must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 权计划将授出之所有购股权而可能发行the adoption date. Such 10% limit may be refreshed or exceeded if approved by 之股份总数，不得超过购股权计划之采shareholders in general meeting subject always to the aforesaid overall 30% limit. 纳日期之已发行股本约10%。倘获股东于股东大会批准，该10%限额可予更新或可授出超过该限额的购股权，惟时刻受上文所述整体30%限额限制。180 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度27. SHARE OPTION SCHEME (continued) 27. 购股权计划（续）The total number of the Company’s shares issued and which may be issued upon 于紧接授出日期前任何十二个月期间，exercise of all options granted to a participant in any 12-month period immediately 因行使授予任何一名参与者之所有购股preceding the date of grant shall not exceed 1% of the number of shares in issue as 权所发行及可能发行之本公司股份总at date of such grant. If the grant of options is offered to a substantial shareholder or 数，不得超过授出购股权当日之已发行an independent non-executive director of the Company or any of their respective 股份数目之1%。倘若向本公司之主要associates, the total number of the Company’s shares issued and which may be issued 股东或独立非执行董事或彼等各自之任to such participant upon exercise of all options granted in any 12-month period up 何联系人士提呈授予购股权，则于截至to and including the date of grant shall not exceed 0.1% of the number of shares 授出日期止任何十二个月期间（包括该then in issue and having an aggregate value in excess of HK$5,000,000. 日），因行使已授予之所有购股权所发行及可能发行予该名参与者之本公司股份总数，不得超过当时已发行股份数目0.1%，且总值不得超过港币5,000,000元。The subscription price for an option granted shall be the highest of (i) the closing 授出之购股权之认购价相当于下列最price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant; (ii) the average closing price of 高者：(i)本公司股份于授出日期之收市the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of grant; and (iii) 价；(ii)股份于紧接授出日期前五个营业the nominal value of a share. 日之平均收市价；及(iii)股份之面值。The vesting period of the share option is from the date of grant until the 购股权之归属期由授出日期开始，直至commencement of the exercisable period. 行使期间开始为止。An option may be exercised during a period to be determined by the Company’s 购股权可于本公司董事会全权酌情厘定board of directors in their absolute discretion and in any event such period shall not 之期间内予以行使，惟无论如何该期间exceed 10 years after the date of grant of the option. 不得超过授出购股权当日后十年。No share option has been granted under the Scheme during the year ended 31 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年December 2021 (2020: Nil). No share option was outstanding at 31 December 度概无根据计划授出购股权（二零二零2021 (2020: Nil). 年：无）。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，概无购股权未获行使（二零二零年：无）。Annual Report 2021 年报 181IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度28. CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT 28. 资本风险管理The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to 本集团之资本管理旨在确保本集团内之continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through 所有实体均可持续经营，同时透过优化the optimisation of debts and equity balance. In order to maintain or adjust the 债务及股本结构为股东谋求最大回报。capital structure, the Group may raise loan from shareholders and issue new shares 为维持或调整资本结构，本集团可能向to reduce debts. 股东筹集贷款及发行新股以减少债务。The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to owners of the 本集团之资本架构包括本公司拥有人应Company, comprising issued share capital, reserves and loan from a shareholder. 占权益（包含已发行股本、储备及股东贷款）。The management of the Group reviews the capital structure on a regular basis. As 本集团管理层定期审核资本结构。作为part of this review, the management of the Group considers the cost of capital and 该审核之一部分，本集团管理层考虑资the risks associates with the capital, and takes appropriate actions through raising 本之成本及资本之风险，并会通过获得debts to adjust the Group’s capital structure. 债务采取适当措施调整本集团之资本架构。29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 29. 金融工具Categories of financial instruments 金融工具类别2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元F inancial assets at amortised cost 按 摊销成本列账之金融资产 63.3 44.0F inancial liabilities at amortised cost 按 摊销成本列账之金融负债 360.4 275.6Financial risk management objectives and policies 财务风险管理目标及政策The Group’s major financial instruments include rental deposits, trade and other 本集团之主要金融工具包括租金按金、receivables, finance lease receivables, bank balances and cash, trade and other 应收账款及其他应收款项、融资租赁应payables, lease liabilities, borrowings and loan from a shareholder. Details of the 收款项、银行结余及现金、应付账款及financial instruments are disclosed in respective notes. The risks associated with 其他应付款项、租赁负债、借款及股东these financial instruments include market risk (currency risk and interest rate risk), 贷款。该等金融工具详情于各有关附注credit risk and liquidity risk. The policies on how to mitigate these risks are set out 披露。与该等金融工具有关之风险包括below. The management of the Group manages and monitors these exposures to 市场风险（货币风险和利率风险）、信贷ensure appropriate measures are implemented on a timely and effective manner. 风险及流动资金风险。有关本集团如何降低该等风险的政策载列如下。本集团管理层管理及监察该等风险，以确保及时和有效地采取适当的措施。182 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Currency risk 货币风险Certain of the Group’s rental deposits, bank balances and cash, trade and other 本集团若干租金按金、银行结余及现receivables, finance lease receivables, trade and other payables, borrowings and loan 金、应收账款及其他应收款项、融资租from a shareholder are denominated in RMB and US$ which are exposed to foreign 赁应收款项、应付账款及其他应付款currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to HK$. 项、借款及股东贷款以人民币及美元计值，以致本集团面临各种货币风险（主要是港币）引起的外币风险。The Group currently has not entered into any contracts to hedge its foreign 本集团目前并无订立任何合约以对冲外currency risk exposure. The management of the Group monitors foreign exchange 币风险。本集团管理层会监察外币风险risk exposure and will consider hedging significant foreign currency exposure should 及在需要时考虑对冲重大外币风险。the need arise.The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currencies denominated monetary 本集团以外币定值之货币资产及负债于assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: 报告日期之账面值如下：Assets Liabilities资产 负债2021 2020 2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年 二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元US$ 美元 48.5 5.0 203.7 121.5RMB 人民币 12.2 10.3 86.0 70.8E UR 欧 元 0.3 0.4 – –Annual Report 2021 年报 183IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Currency risk (continued) 货币风险（续）Sensitivity analysis 敏感度分析The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 5% (2020: 5%) increase and 下表详列因应本集团对各有关集团实体decrease in the functional currency of the respective group entities against the 之功能货币兑有关外币升值及减值5%relevant foreign currencies. 5% (2020: 5%) sensitivity rate represents management’s （二零二零年：5%）之敏感度。5%（二零assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The 二零年：5%）的敏感度代表管理层对外sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currencies denominated monetary 币汇率合理可能变动之评估。敏感度items and adjusts their translation at the period-end for a 5% (2020: 5%) change in 分析仅包括现有以外汇定值的货币性项foreign currency rates. The analysis has excluded US$ denominated monetary items 目，并于期末按5%（二零二零年：5%）as HK$, the functional currency of the group entities holding these monetary items, 的外汇变动调整彼等的换算率。该分析is pegged to US$. The management of the Group considers that the currency risk 并不包括美元定值之货币项目，原因是in this regard is minimal. A positive number below indicates an increase in post- 持有此等货币性项目之集团实体之功能tax loss for the year where functional currency strengthens 5% against the relevant 货币港元乃与美元挂钩。本集团管理层foreign currencies. For a 5% weakening of functional currency of the respective 认为与此有关之货币风险属微不足道。group entities against the relevant foreign currencies, there would be an equal and 下列正数表示倘功能货币兑有关外币升opposite impact on the post-tax loss and the balances below would be negative. 值5%导致该年度出现除税后亏损的增加。倘各有关集团实体之功能货币兑有关外币贬值5%，将会对除税后亏损造成相等及相反之影响，而下列结余将为负数。Effect on post-tax resultfor the year对年度除税后业绩之影响2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元R MB 人 民币 3.7 3.0In management’s opinion, the analysis is used for reference purpose and is 管理层认为此分析只用作参考用途，由unrepresentative of the inherent currency risk as the period end exposure does not 于期末之风险并不反映截至二零二一年reflect the exposure during the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020. 及二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度之风险，因此敏感度分析并不代表固有货币风险。184 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Interest rate risk 利率风险The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through the impact of rate 本集团因银行结存利率变动之影响而承changes on bank balances. The Group’s cash flow interest rate risk is mainly 担现金流量利率风险。本集团的现金流concentrated on the fluctuation of Benchmark Borrowing Rate of the People’s Bank 量利率风险主要集中在中国人民银行的of China. 基准利率。The Group will continue to monitor the exposure on cash flow interest rate risk and 本集团将继续监督现金流量利率风险的will consider hedging the interest rate should the need arise. In the management’s 风险承担并将考虑于有必要时进行利率opinion, the Group does not have material interest rate risk exposure and hence no 对冲。管理层认为，本集团并无重大利sensitivity analysis is presented. 率风险承担，故并无呈列敏感度分析。Credit risk 信贷风险The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk which will cause a financial loss to 本集团将导致其产生财务亏损之最大信the Group is arising from the amount of each class of financial assets as disclosed 贷风险承担乃来自各类金融资产（如综in the consolidated statement of financial position. The Group does not hold any 合财务状况报表所披露）。本集团并无collateral or other credit enhancements to cover its credit risks associated with its 持有任何抵押品或其他信贷提升措施，financial assets. 以应对其于金融资产相关之信贷风险。Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers 产生自客户合约之应收账款In order to minimise the credit risk, the management of the Group has delegated 为减低信贷风险，本集团管理层已指定a team responsible for determination of credit limits and credit approvals. Before 团队负责厘定信贷限额及信贷审批。于accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to 接纳任何新客户前，本集团使用内部信assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. 贷评分制度评估潜在客户的信贷质素，Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed at least twice a year. Other 并界定客户的信贷限额。对客户的限额monitoring procedures are in place to ensure that follow-up action is taken to 及评分每年至少检讨两次。本集团制订recover overdue debts. In addition, the Group performs impairment assessment 其他监督程序，以确保采取跟进措施收under ECL model upon application of HKFRS 9 on trade balances based on 回逾期债务。此外，于应用香港财务报provision matrix. In this regard, the management of the Group considers that the 告准则第9号后，本集团基于拨备矩阵Group’s credit risk is significantly reduced. 根据预期信贷亏损模式对账款结余进行减值评估。就此而言，本集团管理层认为，本集团之信贷风险已大幅减低。Annual Report 2021 年报 185IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）The Group’s internal credit risk grading assessment comprises the following 本集团之内部信贷风险等级评估包括以categories: 下类别：Internalcredit rating Description Trade receivables Other financial assets内部信贷评级 说明 应收账款 其他金融资产Low risk The counterparty has a low risk of default and Lifetime ECL – 12m ECLdoes not have any past-due amount not credit-impaired低风险 对手方有低违约风险且并无任何逾期款项 全期预期信贷亏损－ 十二个月预期信贷亏损并无产生信贷减值Watch list Debtor frequently repays after due dates but Lifetime ECL – 12m ECLusually settle after due date not credit-impaired观察清单 债务人经常于逾期日后还款， 全期预期信贷亏损－ 十二个月预期信贷亏损但通常于到期日后清偿 并无产生信贷减值Doubtful There have been significant increases in credit Lifetime ECL – Lifetime ECL – not credit-impairedrisk since initial recognition through information not credit-impaireddeveloped internally or external resources可疑 透过内部开发之数据或外部资源得知，信贷 全期预期信贷亏损－ 全期预期信贷亏损－并无产生信贷减风险自初步确认以来大幅增加 并无产生信贷减值 值Loss There is evidence indicating the asset is credit- Lifetime ECL – Lifetime ECL – credit-impairedimpaired credit-impaired亏损 有证据表明资产产生信贷减值 全期预期信贷亏损－ 全期预期信贷亏损－产生信贷减值产生信贷减值Write-off There is evidence indicating that the debtor is in Amount is written off Amount is written offsevere financial difficulty and the Group has norealistic prospect of recovery撇销 有证据表明债务人陷入严重财务困难，且本 金额撇销 金额撇销集团并无收回的确实可能186 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）The tables below details the credit risk exposures of the Group’s financial assets, 下表详述本集团金融资产（须进行预期which are subject to ECL assessment: 信贷亏损评估）之信贷风险承担：Gross Total grossExternal Internal 12m or carrying carrying2021 NOTES credit rating credit rating Lifetime ECL amount amount十二个月或 总账面值二零二一年 附注 外部信贷评级 内部信贷评级 全期预期信贷亏损 总账面值 总计HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Financial assets atamortised cost按摊销成本列账之金融资产Rental deposits N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL租 金按金 不适用 （附注2） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 3.4 3.4Finance lease receivables 17 N/A (Note 2) Lifetime ECL –credit-impaired融资租赁应收款项 不适用 （附注2） 全期预期信贷亏损－产生信贷减值 13.8 13.8Bank balances and cash 21 N/A (Note 1) 12m ECL银 行结余及现金 不适用 （附注1） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 52.9 52.9Other receivables 20 N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL其 他应收款项 不适用 （附注2） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 1.1 1.1Trade receivables 20 N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL –应收账款 not credit-impaired(provision matrix)不适用 （附注3） 全期预期信贷亏损－并无产生信贷减值（拨备矩阵） 11.9N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL –credit-impaired不适用 （附注3）） 全期预期信贷亏损－产生信贷减值 21.3 33.2Annual Report 2021 年报 187IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）The tables below detail the credit risk exposures of the Group’s financial assets, 下表详述本集团金融资产（须进行预期which are subject to ECL assessment: 信贷亏损评估）之信贷风险承担：Gross Total grossExternal Internal 12m or carrying carrying2020 NOTES credit rating credit rating Lifetime ECL amount amount十二个月或 总账面值二零二零年 附注 外部信贷评级 内部信贷评级 全期预期信贷亏损 总账面值 总计HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Financial assets atamortised cost按摊销成本列账之金融资产Rental deposits N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL租金按金 不适用 （附注2） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 3.4 3.4Finance lease receivables 17 N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL融资租赁应收款项 不适用 （附注2） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 25.5 25.5Bank balances and cash 21 N/A (Note 1) 12m ECL银行结余及现金 不适用 （附注1） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 13.1 13.1Other receivables 20 N/A (Note 2) 12m ECL其他应收款项 不适用 （附注2） 十二个月预期信贷亏损 1.2 1.2Trade receivables 20 N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL – notcredit-impaired(provision matrix)应收账款 不适用 （附注3） 全期预期信贷亏损－并无产生信贷减值（拨备矩阵） 11.9N/A (Note 3) Lifetime ECL –credit-impaired不适用 （附注3） 全期预期信贷亏损－产生信贷减值 21. 3 33. 2188 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）Notes: 附注：1. For bank balances and cash, the management of the Group considered the credit risk 1. 就银行结余及现金而言，管理层认为has not increased significantly since the initial recognition. According to the historical 信贷风险自初步确认以来并无大幅增observed default rates of bank balances and cash, the average loss rate is immaterial. 加。根据银行结余及现金之过往已观察违约率，平均亏损率并不重大。2. For finance lease receivables, other receivables and rental deposits, the management of 2. 就融资租赁应收款项、其他应收款项the Group individually assessed whether the credit risk increased significantly since the 及租金按金而言，本集团管理层单独initial recognition. Except for credit-impaired debtors, the management of the Group 评估信贷风险自初步确认以来是否大considered the credit risk has not increased significantly since the initial recognition. 幅增加。除产生信贷减值之应收账款外，本集团管理层认为信贷风险自初步确认以来并无大幅增加。3. For trade receivables, the Group has applied the simplified approach in HKFRS 9 to 3. 就应收账款而言，本集团已应用香港measure the loss allowance at lifetime ECL. Except for credit-impaired debtors, the 财务报告准则第9号内的简化法计量Group determines the ECL on these items by using a provision matrix, grouped by 全期预期信贷亏损的亏损拨备。除产internal credit rating. 生信贷减值之应收账款外，本集团使用拨备矩阵厘定该等项目之预期信贷亏损，并按内部信贷评级进行分组。Annual Report 2021 年报 189IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）As part of the Group’s credit risk management, the Group applies internal credit 作为本集团信贷风险管理之一部分，本rating for its customers. The following table provides information about the 集团对其客户进行内部信贷评级。下表exposure to credit risk and loss allowance for trade receivables which are assessed 提供有关信贷风险承担及应收账款亏损collectively based on provision matrix at 31 December 2021 and 2020 within 拨备之资料，有关亏损拨备于二零二一lifetime ECL (not credit-impaired). At 31 December 2021, the credit-impaired 年及二零二零年十二月三十一日乃按全debtors with gross carrying amounts of approximately HK$21.3 million (2020: 期预期信贷亏损（并无产生信贷减值）根approximately HK$21.3 million) were assessed individually. 据拨备矩阵共同进行评估。于二零二一年十二月三十一日，总账面值约港币21.3百万元（二零二零年：约港币21.3百万元）之产生信贷减值之应收账款乃个别进行评估。2021 二零二一年Gross ImpairmentAverage carrying lossInternal credit rating loss rate amount allowance内部信贷评级 平均亏损率 总账面值 减值亏损拨备HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Low risk 低风险 * 0.3 –^Watch list 观察清单 20.2% –^ –^D oubtful 可 疑 96.4% 11.6 11.211.9 11.2190 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）2020 二零二零年Gross ImpairmentAverage carrying lossInternal credit rating loss rate amount allowance内部信贷评级 平均亏损率 总账面值 减值亏损拨备HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Low risk 低风险 * – –Watch list 观察清单 25.3% 0.5 0.1Doubtful 可疑 96.4% 11.4 11.011.9 11.1* According to the historical observed default rates of the expected life of the low risk * 根据低风险债务人预期年期之过往已debtors, the average loss rate is immaterial. 观察违约率，平均亏损率并不重大。^ Represents amounts less than HK$0.1 million. ^ 指金额少于港币0.1百万元。The estimated loss rates are estimated based on historical observed default 估计亏损率乃基于债务人预期年期之过rates over the expected life of the debtors and are adjusted for forward-looking 往已观察违约率估计，并就毋须耗费不information that is available without undue cost or effort. The grouping is regularly 当成本或精力即可得之前瞻性资料进行reviewed by the management of the Group to ensure relevant information about 调整。本集团管理层定期审阅分类以specific debtors is updated. 确保有关特定债务人之相关资料得以更新。During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Group provided a charge of 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年approximately HK$0.1 million loss allowance (2020: a charge of approximately 度，本集团已根据拨备矩阵就未出现信HK$8.6 million loss allowance) for trade receivables which are not credit-impaired, 贷减值之应收账款计提亏损拨备费用约based on the provision matrix and no further charge of loss allowance (2020: a 港币0.1百万元（二零二零年：计提亏损charge of approximately HK$9.6 million) were made on credit-impaired debtors, 拨备约港币8.6百万元），而并无就产生which have either been paced under liquidation or in financial difficulties. 信贷减值之债务人（其遭清盘或面对严重财务困难）计提进一步亏损拨备（二零二零年：计提约港币9.6百万元）。Annual Report 2021 年报 191IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Credit risk (continued) 信贷风险（续）Trade receivables arising from contracts with customers (continued) 产生自客户合约之应收账款（续）The following table shows the movement in lifetime ECL that has been recognised 下表显示根据简化方式已就应收账款确for trade receivables under the simplified approach. 认之全期预期信贷亏损变动。Lifetime ECL Lifetime ECL(not credit- (credit-impaired) impaired) Total全期预期 全期信贷亏损 预期信贷（并无产生 亏损（产生信贷减值） 信贷减值） 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 4.6 9.6 14.2Changes due to financial instruments 确认之金融工具产生之变动：recognised:– Transfer to credit-impaired －转拨至产生信贷减值 (2.1) 2.1 –Charged to profit or loss 自损益扣除 8.6 9.6 18.2At 31 December 2020 and 于二零二零年十二月三十一日1 January 2021 及二零二一年一月一日 11.1 21.3 32.4C harged to profit or loss 自 损益扣除 0.1 – 0.1At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 11.2 21.3 32.5At 31 December 2021, the Group had a concentration of credit risk as approximately 于二零二一年十二月三十一日，本集团32.6% (2020: approximately 26.6%) of the total trade receivables was due from the 负有集中信贷风险，乃因应收账款总额Group’s largest trade debtor, and approximately 76.7% (2020: approximately 71.7%) 之约32.6%（二零二零年：约26.6%）来自of the total trade receivables was due from the Group’s five largest trade debtors, 本集团最大债务人，且应收账款总额之respectively. 约76.7%（二零二零年：约71.7%）来自本集团五大贸易债务人。192 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Finance lease receivables 融资租赁应收款项In 2021, the Group made provisions for credit impairment of financial lease 于二零二一年，本集团就融资租赁应收receivables of approximately HK$8.6 million, mainly due to the recognition of the 款项之信贷减值作出拨备约港币8.6百万difference between the carrying amount and the estimated recoverable amount 元，此乃主要由于将信贷减值融资租赁of the credit-impaired financial lease receivables as a credit impairment loss after 应收款项的账面值与估计可收回金额之estimating its recoverable amount. Movement of allowances on finance lease 差异确认为预估其可收回金额后之信贷receivables are as follows: 减值亏损。有关融资租赁应收款项拨备之变动如下：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元At 1 January 于一月一日 – –Increase in loss allowance 亏损拨备增加– Charged to profit or loss －自损益扣除 8.6 –A t 31 December 于 十二月三十一日 8.6 -Annual Report 2021 年报 193IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) 财务风险管理目标及政策（续）Liquidity risk 流动资金风险In the management of the liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains a level of 于管理流动资金风险方面，管理层认为cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management of the Group to 本集团已监控及维持足够之现金及等同finance the Group’s operations and mitigates the effects of fluctuations in cash flows. 现金项目水平，以提供本集团经营业务The management of the Group monitors the utilisation of borrowings and ensures 所需之资金及减低现金流量波动之影compliance with loan covenants. 响。本集团管理层监控借贷之运用情况及确保遵从贷款契约。The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its financial 下表详列按照协定的还款条款，本集团liabilities based on the agreed repayment terms. For non-derivative financial liabilities, 金融负债之余下合约到期日。就非衍生the table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial 金融负债而言，该表乃根据按本集团可liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay. 被要求偿还之最早日期计算之金融负债The maturity dates for other non-derivative financial liabilities are based on agreed 之未贴现现金流量编制。其他非衍生金repayment dates. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. 融负债之到期日则为其协定还款日。该表包括利率及本金的现金流量。Liquidity and interest risk tables 流动资金及利率风险表WeightedaverageOn demand Over 1 year Over 2 years Total Total carryingeffective or within but within but within undiscounted amount atinterest rate 1 year 2 years 5 years cash flows year end加权平均 应要求或 一年以上 两年以上 未贴现现金 年末实际利率 一年内 但两年内 但五年内 流量总额 总账面值% HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million% 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日Non-derivate financial liabilities 非衍生金融负债Trade and other payables 应付账款及其他应付款项 – 56.0 – – 56.0 56.0Borrowings 借款 8.0 9.3 – 59.8 69.1 58.0Lease liabilities 租赁负债 9.0 29.5 15.8 – 45.3 42.7L oan from a shareholder 股 东贷款 – 203. 7 – – 203. 7 203. 7298.5 15.8 59.8 374.1 360.4At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月三十一日Non-derivate financial liabilities 非衍生金融负债Trade and other payables 应付账款及其他应付款项 – 52.7 – – 52.7 52.7Borrowings 借款 8.0 – – 59.5 59.5 44.8Lease liabilities 租赁负债 8.2 30.4 31.3 – 61.7 56.6Loan from a shareholder 股东贷款 – 121.5 – – 121.5 121.5204.6 31.3 59.5 295.4 275.6194 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度29. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued) 29. 金融工具（续）Fair value 公平值The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities at amortised cost are 按摊销成本计算之金融资产及金融负债determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on 之公平值乃根据以贴现现金流量分析为discounted cash flow analysis. 基础的公认定价模型厘定。The management of the Group considers that the carrying amount of financial 本集团管理层认为于综合财务报表中以assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the consolidated financial 摊销成本记录之金融资产及金融负债之statements approximates to their fair values. 账面值与其公平值相若。30. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING 30. 融资活动所产生负债对账ACTIVITIESThe table below details changes in the Group’s liabilities arising from financing 下表载列本集团自融资活动所产生负债activities, including both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing 之变动（包括现金及非现金变动）详情。activities are that for which cash flow was, or future cash flow will be, classified in the 自融资活动所产生的负债为本集团于综Group’s consolidated statement of cash flow as cash flow from financing activities. 合现金流量表分类为融资活动所得现金流量的现金流量或未来现金流量。Loan from Leasea shareholder Borrowings liabilities Total股东贷款 借款 租赁负债 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 69.0 39.2 5.0 113.2Additions of investment properties 添置投资物业及使用权资产and right-of-use assets – – 59.9 59.9Financing cash flow 融资现金流量 52.5 – (8.9) 43.6Exchange differences 汇兑差额 – 3.0 – 3.0Finance costs 融资成本 – 2.6 0.6 3.2At 31 December 2020 and 于二零二零年十二月三十一日1 January 2021 及二零二一年一月一日 121.5 44.8 56.6 222.9Financing cash flow 融资现金流量 82.2 9.3 (17.7) 73.8Exchange differences 汇兑差额 – 1.0 – 1.0Finance costs 融 资成本 – 2. 9 3. 8 6. 7At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 203.7 58.0 42.7 304.4Annual Report 2021 年报 195IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度31. DIVIDEND 31. 股息No dividend was paid or proposed for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 截至二零二一年及二零二零年十二月2020, nor has any dividend been proposed since the end of the reporting periods. 三十一日止年度，概无派付或建议派付股息，及自报告期末起并无建议派付股息。32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS 32. 或然负债╱诉讼(a) In December 2020, there was a litigation initiated by a supplier of the Group (a) 于二零二零年十二月，本集团in Hong Kong claiming the allegedly due and unpaid balance of purchase 于香港的一名供应商鉴于本集orders against a subsidiary of the Group in Hong Kong in view of unilateral 团附属公司单方面取消金额约为cancellation of purchase orders by the subsidiary of the Group for a sum of 334,000美元（相当于约港币2.6百approximately US$334,000 (equivalent to approximately HK$2.6 million). 万元）的采购订单而提起诉讼，The management of the Group, having obtained the legal advice from an 就其声称的本集团于香港的一间independent legal counsel, estimated that the Group will likely be liable to 附属公司采购订单之到期未付结pay for the total and, therefore, the Group had recognised the provision for 余提出申索。本集团管理层经获losses on litigations of approximately HK$2.3 million in profit or loss for the 取独立法律顾问之法律意见后，year ended 31 December 2020. During the year ended 31 December 2021, 估计本集团将有可能倾向于支付the litigation is still in process. 总额，因此本集团于截至二零二零年十二月三十一日止年度之损益内确认计提诉讼亏损约港币2.3百万元。截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度，该诉讼仍在受理中。Subsequently, on 12 April 2022, the Group has filed a Consent Summons 其后，于二零二二年四月十二for settlement to the District Court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative 日，本集团已向香港特别行政Region. According to the Consent Summons, the settlement sum was 区区域法院提交和解同意传讯令reduced to approximately US$130,000 (equivalent to approximately HK$1.0 状。根据同意传讯令状，和解金million) and was agreed to be settled by instalments on without admission of 额减至约130,000美元（相当于约liability basis. On 11 May 2022, the Consent Summons was approved. As a 港币1.0百万元）并同意在不承认result, a reversal of provision for losses on litigations of approximately HK$1.3 责任之基础上分期付款结清。于million had been recognised in “Provision for losses on litigations, net” in 二零二二年五月十一日，同意传“Other losses, net” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 讯令状获批准。因此，诉讼亏损comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2021. 拨备拨回约港币1.3百万元已于截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度的综合损益及其他全面收益表内“其他亏损，净额”中的“诉讼亏损拨备净额”确认。196 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS (continued) 32. 或然负债╱诉讼（续）(b) In 2020, the Group received a notice from a District Court in the PRC (the (b) 于二零二零年，本集团接获中国“PRC Court”) stating that a supplier of the Group in the PRC has initiated 地方法院（“中国法院”）的通知，legal action against certain subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by claiming 称本集团于中国的一名供应商已the allegedly due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees from the Group. 针对本集团的若干中国附属公司In respect of the aforesaid due and unpaid balance of subcontracting fees 提起法律诉讼，就其声称的应收approximately HK$5.5 million had been recognised in “Trade payables” at 31 本集团分包费之到期未付结余December 2021 and 2020. 提出申索。上述到期未付分包费结余约为港币5.5百万元，已于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日于“应付账款”内确认。According to judgements dated 16 August 2021 issued by the PRC Court, 根据中国法院日期为二零二一年the Group was liable to make payment of approximately RMB4.9 million and 八月十六日之判决，本集团须分approximately RMB0.1 million (equivalent to approximately HK$6.0 million 别支付约人民币4.9百万元及约人and approximately HK$0.1 million) as settlement of subcontracting fees and 民币0.1百万元（相当于约港币6.0material costs, respectively. The Group has then filed an appeal for such 百万元及约港币0.1百万元）以结judgements to the PRC Court. 算分包费及材料成本。本集团已就该等判决向中国法院提出上诉。Based on the legal advice obtained from an independent legal counsel, the 基于一名独立法律顾问的法律management of the Group considered no further provision for litigation was 建议，本集团管理层认为，于required to be made for the year ended 31 December 2021. Subsequent to 截至二零二一年十二月三十一日the 31 December 2021 and up to the date of approving these consolidated 止年度内无须为有关诉讼进一步financial statements, the litigation is still in process. 计提拨备。于二零二一年十二月三十一日后及直至批准本综合财务报表日期，诉讼仍在受理中。Annual Report 2021 年报 197IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS (continued) 32. 或然负债╱诉讼（续）(c) During the year ended 31 December 2021, the Group received several (c) 于截至二零二一年十二月三十一notices from the PRC Court stating that a group of ten individuals former 日止年度，本集团接获中国法院employees and three individuals former employees of the Group in the PRC 的若干通知，称由本集团中国的has initiated legal action against subsidiaries of the Group in the PRC by 十名个别前任雇员及三名个别前claiming compensation of the dismissal of labour contract in view of breach of 任雇员组成的小组已对本集团于terms in employment agreement by the Group. Pursuant to the judgements 中国的附属公司提起诉讼，要求made by the court of the PRC, the Group was ordered to make payment 就本集团违反雇佣协议中的条款amounting to approximately HK$2.8 million which had been recognised 而解除劳动合同获得赔偿。根据in “Provision for losses on litigations, net” in “Other losses, net” in the 中国法院的判决，本集团被责令consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for 立即支付约港币2.8百万元，该the year ended 31 December 2021. 款项已于截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度的综合损益及其他全面收益表内“其他亏损，净额”中的“诉讼亏损拨备净额”确认。For the case against the group of ten individuals former employees, 就十名前任雇员的案件而言，向which payment to them was approximately RMB1.7 million (equivalent 彼等支付的款项约为人民币1.7百to approximately HK$2.0 million); the Group has been trying to reach a 万元（相当于约港币2.0百万元）；settlement agreement with them subsequent to the judgement issued by the 在中国法院作出判决后，本集团PRC Court. As for the remaining cases of three individuals former employees, 一直试图与彼等达成和解协议。which the total payments to them were approximately RMB0.7 million 至于余下的三名前任雇员案件，(equivalent to approximately HK$0.8 million), the Group has filed for appeals 向彼等支付的款项总额约为人民for such judgements to the PRC Court. 币0.7百万元（相当于约港币0.8百万元），本集团已就该等判决向中国法院提出上诉。Subsequent to the 31 December 2021 and up to the date of approving these 于二零二一年十二月三十一日后consolidated financial statements, the Group has yet to reach a settlement 及直至批准本综合财务报表日agreement with the group of ten former empolyees and the litigations 期，本集团尚未与十名前任雇员concerning the three individuals former employees are still in process. 达成和解协议，有关三名个别前任雇员的诉讼仍在受理中。198 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度32. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES/LITIGATIONS (continued) 32. 或然负债╱诉讼（续）Other than the disclosure of above and elsewhere in the consolidated financial 除上述及其他于综合财务报表中的披露statements, at the end of the reporting period, the Group was not involved in any 外，于报告期末，本集团未牵涉任何其other material litigation or arbitration. As far as the management of the Group was 他重大诉讼或仲裁。据本集团管理层所aware, the Group had no other material litigation or claim which was pending or 知，本集团并无其他未决或威胁本集团threatened against the Group. At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Group was the 的重大诉讼或申索。于二零二一年及二defendant of certain non-material litigations, and also a party to certain litigations 零二零年十二月三十一日，本集团为arising from the ordinary course of business of the Group. The likely outcome of 若干非重大诉讼的被告，亦于本集团的these contingent liabilities, litigations or other legal proceedings cannot be ascertained 日常业务过程中牵涉若干诉讼。目前尚with reasonable certainty at present, but the management of the Group believes 无法确定该等或有负债、诉讼或其他法that any possible legal liability which may be incurred from the aforesaid cases will 律程序的可能结果，但本集团管理层认not have any material impact on the financial position or results of the Group. 为，上述案件可能引起的任何可能法律责任将不会对本集团的财务状况或业绩产生任何重大影响。33. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 33. 关联方交易Apart from the transactions and the balances with related parties disclosed 除此综合财务报表其他章节详述与关联elsewhere in the consolidated financial statements, the Group also entered into 方的交易及结余外，本集团于截至二零the following significant transactions with related parties during the years ended 31 二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日止December 2021 and 2020: 年度曾与关联方进行以下重大交易：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Remuneration for key management personnel 本集团主要管理人员薪酬：of the Group:Salaries, allowances and other benefits 薪金、津贴及其他福利 3.1 3.7R etirement benefits scheme contributions 退 休福利计划供款 0.3 0.13.4 3.8The remuneration of directors of the Company and other members of key 本公司董事及其他主要管理人员之薪酬management is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the 由薪酬委员会按个别人士之表现及市场performance of individuals and market trends. 薪酬水平厘定。Annual Report 2021 年报 199IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度34. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 34. 主要附属公司At 31 December 2021 and 2020, the Company’s principal subsidiaries are all 于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月indirectly wholly-owned by the Company. Details of the Company’s principal 三十一日，本公司主要附属公司均为本subsidiaries at 31 December 2021 and 2020 are as follows: 公司间接全资拥有。本公司主要附属公司于二零二一年及二零二零年十二月三十一日之详情如下：Nominal valuePlace of of issuedincorporation/ ordinary share/Name of subsidiary establishment registered capital Principal activities注册成立╱ 已发行普通附属公司名称 成立地点 股份面值╱注册资本 主要业务IDT Technology Limited Hong Kong HK$2 Trading of consumer electronic products万威科研有限公司 香港 港币2元 经销电子消费产品万威电子（深圳）有限公司 (Note) The PRC HK$35,000,000 Manufacture of consumer electronic products万威电子（深圳）有限公司（附注） 中国 港币35,000,000元 and plastic parts and provision of surfacemount technology assembly services制造电子消费产品及塑胶部件及提供表面接合技术Oregon Scientific Global Hong Kong HK$2 Marketing and distribution of consumerDistribution Limited 香港 港币2元 electronic products欧西亚环球有限公司 推广及分销电子消费产品Note: This is a wholly foreign owned enterprise established in the PRC. 附注： 于中国成立之外商独资企业。All of the above subsidiaries operate principally in their respective place of 上述所有附属公司均主要在其注册成incorporation/establishment. 立╱成立地点经营。The above table lists the subsidiaries of the Company which, in the opinion of the 上表只列出董事认为对本集团业绩或资directors, principally affect the results or assets of the Group. To give details of 产有重要影响之本公司附属公司。本公other subsidiaries would, in the opinion of the directors of the Company, result in 司董事认为详细列明其他附属公司之资particulars of excessive length. 料将过于冗长。None of the subsidiaries had issued any debt securities outstanding at the end of the 于报告期末，各附属公司均无发行任何reporting period. 尚未偿还之债务证券。200 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度35. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 35. 本公司的财务资料Financial information of the Company at the end of the reporting period includes: 于报告期末，本公司的财务资料包括：2021 2020二零二一年 二零二零年HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元Non-current assets 非流动资产I nterest in subsidiaries 于 附属公司的权益 – –Current assets 流动资产Other receivables 其他应收款项 –* –B ank balances and cash 银 行结余及现金 –* 0.1–* 0.1Current liabilities 流动负债Other payables 其他应付款项 3.3 3.0A mounts due to subsidiaries 应 付附属公司款项 12.0 9.415.3 12.4N et liabilities 负 债净值 (15.3) (12.3)Capital and reserves 股本及储备Share capital 股本 260.0 260.0R eserves (Note (a)) 储 备（附注(a)） (275.3) (272.3)N et deficit 亏 绌净额 (15.3) (12.3)* Represents amounts less than HK$0.1 million. * 指金额少于港币0.1百万元。The statement of financial position was approved and authorised for issue by the 财务状况表已于二零二二年五月三十一Board of Directors on 31 May 2022 and signed on its behalf by: 日获董事会批准及授权发行，并由下列人士代表签署：Zhu Yongning Zhou Rui 朱永宁 周锐Director Director 董事 董事Annual Report 2021 年报 201IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度35. FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY (continued) 35. 本公司的财务资料（续）Reserves of the Company 本公司储备Share Accumulatedpremium losses Total股份溢价 累计亏损 总额HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元At 1 January 2020 于二零二零年一月一日 165.0 (433.0) (268.0)Loss and total comprehensive loss 本年度亏损及全面亏损总额for the year – (4.3) (4.3)At 31 December 2020 于二零二零年十二月and 1 January 2021 三十一日及二零二一年一月一日 165.0 (437.3) (272.3)Loss and total comprehensive loss 本年度亏损及全面亏损总额for the year – (3.0) (3.0)At 31 December 2021 于二零二一年十二月三十一日 165.0 (440.3) (275.3)202 Annual Report 2021 年报IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements综合财务报表附注For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度36. EVENT AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD 36. 报告期末后事项Since January 2022, the surge of COVID-19 cases and the implementation of the 自二零二二年一月起，COVID-19病tightened COVID-19 prevention and control quarantine measures in the PRC and 例数激增，中国及香港实施更严格的Hong Kong has hampered the audit progress, and COVID-19 pandemic has affected COVID-19防控检疫措施已阻碍审计进the Group’s operation to the extent that the production of the Group’s factory in 度，且COVID-19疫情对本集团营运造Shenzhen was temporarily suspended with effect from 5 March 2022 until further 成影响，致使本集团于深圳的生产工厂notice (as disclosed in the Company’s announcement dated 7 March 2022). The 自二零二二年三月五日起暂停生产，直Group will keep continuous attention on the situation of the COVID-19 and react 至另行通知为止（如本公司日期为二零actively to its impact on the financial position and operating results of the Group. 二二年三月七日之公布所披露）。本集团将持续关注COVID-19的情况并积极应对其对本集团的财务状况及经营业绩造成的影响。Following up to the temporarily suspension of its Shenzhen factory, the Group, after 继深圳工厂暂停生产后，本集团经友好friendly negotiation, has reached an intention with the landlord to early terminate 协商，已与业主达成意向，提前终止或or modify part of its lease agreements of certain buildings of the Group in the 修订本集团在中国若干楼宇的部分租赁PRC (the “Intended Lease Arrangement”). However, as the settlement plan of the 协议（“拟订租赁安排”）。然而，由于拟Intended Lease Arrangement is still under negotiation, it is not practicable to reliably 订租赁安排的结算方案仍在磋商中，所estimate its financial effect. The management of the Group is closely monitoring 以暂未能可靠地估计其财务影响。本集the development of the Intended Lease Arrangement and continue to evaluate the 团管理层正密切监控拟订租赁安排的发impact on the business, the results and financial position of the Group. 展，并继续评估对本集团业务、业绩及财务状况的影响。Annual Report 2021 年报 203IDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 万威国际有限公司Group Financial Summary集团财务概要For the year ended 31 December 2021截至二零二一年十二月三十一日止年度Year ended 31 December截至十二月三十一日止年度2021 2020 2019 2018 2017二零二一年 二零二零年 二零一九年 二零一八年 二零一七年HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元RESULTS 业绩R evenue 收 益 17. 1 55. 4 270. 4 433. 2 516. 6Loss before taxation 除税前亏损 (84.2) (95.8) (83.1) (203.3) (85.7)Taxation 税项 – – – (12. 3) －L oss for the year 本 年度亏损 (84. 2) (95. 8) (83. 1) (215. 6) (85. 7)Attributable to: 以下人士应占：Owners of the Company 本公司拥有人 (84.2) (95.8) (83.1) (215.6) (85.7)Non-controlling interests 非控股权益 – – – – –(84. 2) (95. 8) (83. 1) (215. 6) (85. 7)Loss per share 每股亏损– Basic and diluted (HK cents) －基本及摊薄（港仙） (3.24) HK cents (3.68) HK cents (3.20) HK cents (8.29) HK cents (3.30) HK cents港仙 港仙 港仙 港仙 港仙As at 31 December于十二月三十一日2021 2020 2019 2018 2017二零二一年 二零二零年 二零一九年 二零一八年 二零一七年HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million HK$ million港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元 港币百万元ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 资产及负债Total assets 总资产 81.3 91.7 101.9 215.2 408.1Total liabilities 总负债 (386. 9) (313. 0) (227. 0) (258. 2) (228. 4)(305. 6) (221. 3) (125. 1) (43. 0) 179. 7Equity attributable to owners 本公司拥有人of the Company 应占权益 (305.7) (221.4) (125.2) (43.1) 179.6Non-controlling interests 非控股权益 0. 1 0. 1 0. 1 0. 1 0. 1(305. 6) (221. 3) (125. 1) (43. 0) 179. 7204 Annual Report 2021 年报